WELCOME.
WELCOME TO THE THURSDAY,
NOVEMBER 9TH.
TWENTY TWENTY THREE MEETING
OF THE ANN ARBOR HISTORIC
DISTRICT COMMISSION, THIS
MEETING IS BEING HELD IN PERSON
AND ELECTRONICALLY VIA ZOOME
MEMBERS OF THE PUBLIC WHO WOULD
LIKE TO COMMENT ON HEARINGS OR
OTHER MATTERS MAY DO SO IN
PERSON OR VIRTUALLY TO SPEAK
DURING ANY OF THE PUBLIC
COMMENT OPPORTUNITIES PLEASE
CALL 202 IX THREE THREE SEVEN
NINE SEVEN TWO THREE OR TOLL
FREE EIGHT SEVEN SEVEN EIGHT
FIVE THREE FIVE TO FOUR SEVEN
ENTER OUR MEETING IDX NINE SIX
FIVE THREE SIX SIX NINE NINE
SEVEN SIX TWO.
>> THIS INFORMATION IS ALSO
AVAILABLE ON THE PUBLISHED
AGENDA IN THE PUBLIC NOTICES
SECTION OF THE CITY WEBSITE AND
ON THE BROADCAST OF THIS
MEETING ON CTM.
CTM CAN BE FOUND ON XFINITY
CHANNEL 16 AT E.A. CHANNEL
NINETY NINE STREAMING ONLINE ON
YOUTUBE OR AT A TWO GOV AUXOIS
CTM.
>> WE INTEND TO CONDUCT THIS
HYBRID MEETING SIMILARLY TO AN
IN-PERSON MEETING HOWEVER
PLEASE BE PATIENT IF THERE ARE
TECHNICAL ISSUES FIRST I WANT
TO JUST ADDRESS THE OBVIOUS
HERE WHICH IS I READ THIS IN AN
EMAIL THAT THAT THE CITY SENT
OUT AND LET ME JUST TALK ABOUT
THE MURAL FOR A SECOND.
THIS CITY COUNCIL CHAMBERS IS
ADORNED WITH A NEW CEILING
MURAL ENTITLED THEY WILL ALL BE
DREAMING.
THIS WAS JUST PAINTED A COUPLE
OF WEEKENDS AGO BY ARTIST AND
MICHIGAN RESIDENT TESSMANN OVER
.
SO SHE HAS A QUOTE HERE THAT
STAFF AND VISITORS ARE
ENCOURAGED TO LOOK FOR
THEMSELVES WITH THE ARTIST'S
REMINDER THAT EVEN THIS IS A
QUOTE EVEN AMIDST THE CHAOS
OF LIFE THERE'S A TRANQUIL
WORLD ABOVE WAITING TO IGNITE
OUR IMAGINATION AND PROVIDE A
SANCTUARY FOR DREAMERS AND
THINKERS ALIKE.
I JUST THOUGHT THAT WAS REALLY
FITTING FOR FOR THIS COMMISSION
.
SO ANYWAY, I GOT A NEW PAINT
WELL ASKED FOR COMMENTS LATER.
OK, AND THEN THAT'S NOT THE
ONLY THING THAT'S NEW.
WE ACTUALLY HAVE TWO NEW
COMMISSIONERS JOINING US FOR
THE FIRST TIME TODAY I SHOULD
SAY THIS EVENING AND THEY'RE
GOING TO INTRODUCE THEMSELVES.
>> AND SO LET'S START WITH CHIP
.
>> HI EVERYBODY.
NICE TO JOIN YOU.
THANKS FOR HAVING ME ON THIS
COMMISSION.
I'M CHIP SMITH.
I'M AN URBAN PLANNER.
LOTS OF PEOPLE MIGHT KNOW ME
BECAUSE WAS ON CITY COUNCIL FOR
A LONG TIME, BEEN RETIRED FROM
THAT FOR A COUPLE OF YEARS NOW.
BUT SEEING THAT THERE WAS AN
OPPORTUNITY TO SERVE AGAIN, I
WAS HAPPY TO STEP FORWARD AND
OFFER MY EXPERTIZE.
THANK YOU, CHIP.
I'M STEVE KAPLAN, LOCAL
PROPERTY MANAGER AND I GUESS AN
AMATEUR FAN OF OF HISTORIC
HOUSES.
SO I'M HAPPY HAPPY TO BE HERE.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
SO THAT'S COMMISSIONER SMITH
AND COMMISSIONER KAPLIN JOINING
US TODAY.
THANK YOU TO BOTH OF YOU FOR
JOINING ME NOW MISS THATCHER,
WILL YOU PLEASE CALL THE ROLL?
IT'S NICE TO HAVE A FULL HOUSE
AGAIN.
COMMISSIONER FORTNER HERE MR.
CALDERON YOUR COMMISSIONER
SMITH PRESENT COMMISSIONER
RACHLIN HERE, COMMISSIONER
ROSS, COMMISSIONER QUIJANO
HERE.
COMMISSIONER KAPLIN HERE YOU
HAVE A QUORUM.
FANTASTIC.
WE'LL MOVE ON TO APPROVAL
OF THE AGENDA AND I'M WONDERING
IF THERE ARE ANY ADDITIONS,
DELETIONS OR CHANGES TO
TONIGHT'S AGENDA AND I'M NOT
SEEING ANY SO WITHOUT OBJECTION
THE AGENDA IS APPROVED AS
PRESENTED AND WE'LL MOVE ON TO
D PUBLIC COMMENT.
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
PERSONS TO SPEAK FOR UP TO
THREE MINUTES ABOUT AN ISSUE
THAT IS NOT LISTED ON AS A
PUBLIC HEARING ON THIS AGENDA.
TO COMMENT ON SUCH OTHER
PRESERVATION MATTERS, PLEASE
CALL IN USING THE INFORMATION
DISPLAYED ON THE MEETING AGENDA
AND VIDEO FEED CITY STAFF WILL
SELECT CALLERS ONE BY ONE USING
THE LAST THREE DIGITS OF YOUR
PHONE NUMBER TO ELECTRONICALLY
RAISE YOUR HAND TO INDICATE
YOUR DESIRE TO SPEAK PLEASE
PRESS STAR NINE ON YOUR PHONE
YOU WILL HEAR AN AUTOMATED
ANNOUNCEMENT THAT THE HOUSE IS
ALLOWING YOU TO SPEAK.
DO WE HAVE EVERYONE?
NO, WE DON'T HAVE ANYONE
CALLING AND THERE'S NO ONE
STEPPING FORWARD HERE.
SO WE WILL MOVE ON FROM PUBLIC
COMMENT AND GO TO E UNFINISHED
BUSINESS.
THERE IS NO UNFINISHED BUSINESS
SO WE WILL MOVE ON TO F
HEARINGS AND WE WILL BEGIN WITH
OUR FIRST AND ONLY HEARING F
ONE FIVE FORTY NINE S FIRST
STREET IS THAT PAYS FIVE FORTY
NINE S FIRST STREET IS IN THE
OLD WEST SIDE HISTORIC DISTRICT
FIRST APPEARS IN CITY
DIRECTORIES IN 1896 AS NUMBER
NINETY NINE THE HOME
OF CONTRACTOR HENRI COOK AND
HIS WIFE MARY CHRISTIAN COOK A
MASON LIVED ACROSS THE STREET
AT NUMBER NINETY SIX AND BOTH
WORKED FOR COOK BROTHERS
CONSTRUCTION WHICH BUILT MANY
OF THE NEIGHBORS MOST NOTABLE
BUILDINGS.
OH LET'S SEE HENRY AND MARY SON
HAROLD WAS A FOUNDING MEMBER
OF MEMBER OF THE OLD WEST SIDE
ASSOCIATION.
THIS HOUSE IS A TWO STOREY
GABLE FRONT WITH CORNER
RETURNS, A BRICK CHIMNEY, A
SECOND FLOOR WINDOW FACING THE
STREET, A STONE FRONT PORCH
WITH WING WALLS AND ROUND
TAPERED HALF COLUMNS, A FRONT
WINDOW WITH A LEADED GLASS
TRANSAM AND A CUT STONE.
A NATURAL STONE FOUNDATION THIS
THIS HOUSE ON NINETEEN THIRTY
ONE IN NINETEEN FORTY EIGHT
SANBORN'S IS A TWO STORY HOUSE
WITH A ONE STORY WING IN THE
BACK AT SOME POINT IN MODERN
DAYS THE THE ONE STORY IN THE
BACK GOT A SECOND FLOOR EDITION
THAT WE'RE TALKING ABOUT
ALTERING TODAY JUST WALKING
AROUND THE HOUSE YOU CAN SEE
THAT THERE IS A VERY
INTERESTING FOUNDATION BECAUSE
THERE'S SO MANY KINDS OF STONE
USED THE THE NORTH SIDE AND
MOST OF THE REAR ELEVATION HAVE
LOVELY CUT STONE BLOCKS LIKE
THE ONES YOU SEE HERE ON THE
PORCH.
I BELIEVE THAT THE PORCH WOULD
HAVE BEEN ADDED LATER.
THESE STONE PORCHES DIDN'T COME
INTO VOGUE AND UNTIL AFTER THE
TURN OF THE CENTURY BUT IT HAS
BEEN AROUND FOR A LONG TIME.
YOU CAN SEE IT'S HAD A LOT
OF OF REPOINTING DONE AND IT'S
A LITTLE BIT OF A OF A MESS
THERE THE WAY THE STONES ARE
PUT TOGETHER WHEN THEY WERE
APPOINTED WALKING AROUND THE
HOUSE THIS IS THE SOUTH SIDE.
YOU CAN SEE THAT THERE'S A
FENCE THAT BISECTS THE HOUSE
BEHIND THIS FIRST WINDOW AND
PART OF THE APPLICATION IS TO
MOVE THIS FENCE FORWARD TO THE
FRONT CORNER OF THE HOUSE AND
RIGHT DOWN HERE BEHIND THIS
TRASH CAN WE'LL GET PHOTOS
LATER A AND EGRESS WINDOW WOULD
BE INSTALLED BECAUSE THEY'RE
HOPING TO DIG THE BASEMENT DOWN
FOR UP TO A NINE FOOT CEILING
TO MAKE THAT USABLE SPACE.
HERE'S ANOTHER PICTURE SHOWING
THE FENCE.
IT'S SIX FEET ALONG THE FRONT
HERE.
IT'S EIGHT FEET ON THE SIDE AND
THERE'S ANOTHER EIGHT FOOT
SECTION IN THE BACKYARD.
WE'LL GET TO THE LAYOUT OF THE
NEW FENCE BUT IT'S BASICALLY TO
PULL IT FORWARD AND CONNECT UP
HERE WITH ANOTHER SIX FOOT
SECTION AND LEAVE OR REBUILD
THE FENCE THAT SITS THERE AND
ITS EXISTING HEIGHTS.
THIS IS THE NORTH ELEVATION
OF THE HOUSE.
NOT A LOT OF WORK PROPOSED ON
THIS SIDE.
A COUPLE OF SKYLIGHTS ARE
PROPOSED ON THE ROOF.
A BIG AC UNIT WOULD BE REPLACED
WITH TOO MANY SPLITS AND THE
LINES THAT WOULD BE ON THE
INTERIOR OF THE HOUSE.
THE RED BRICK CHIMNEY IS
PROPOSED TO BE REMOVED BECAUSE
OF WORK THAT'S GOING ON ON THE
INTERIOR OF THE HOUSE.
THIS IS THE FRONT GABLE.
THIS IS A MODERN I BELIEVE
VENTE FROM PHOTOS THAT WERE
PROVIDED SHOWING THE INTERIOR
OF THE BUILDING IT YOU SEE
THESE VENTS A LOT IN THE ATTIC
FACING THE STREET OR FACING THE
REAR.
USUALLY THOUGH THEY'RE MORE
PROPORTIONED LIKE A WINDOW LIKE
IT WOULD BE TALLER THAN IT IS
WIDE.
IT WOULD BE STRANGE TO SEE ONE
OF THESE PROPORTIONS AS AN
ORIGINAL PART OF THE HOUSE.
>> NOW I GOT A LITTLE BIT OUT
OF ORDER HERE.
WE'RE IN THE BACK OF THE HOUSE
SO THE FIRST FLOOR USED TO GO
ACROSS TO PROBABLY ABOUT HERE
AND THEN STOP AND THIS WAS A
WOODEN PORCH WITH WITHOUT WITH
A ROOF OVER IT, YOU KNOW, JUST
A BACK PORCH SIMILAR TO THE
FRONT PORCH.
WHEN YOU'RE STANDING HERE YOU
CAN SEE THAT THIS CORNER HAS A
NEW BLACK FOUNDATION, LOOKS A
LOT LIKE THIS WHERE A WINDOW OR
A COAL CHUTE OR SOMETHING WAS
BUILT ON THE BACK A HOUSE.
SO IT'S VERY EASY TO PICK OUT
WHERE THE THE NEW ARE.
THIS WINDOW IS CLEARLY MODERN
AS IS THIS AWNING AND THE DOOR
BACK HERE.
SO WHEN THIS SECOND FLOOR WAS
ADDED AS SORT OF AN EXTENSION
TO A BEDROOM UPSTAIRS I BELIEVE
SORT OF A SUNROOM WITH A LOT
OF WINDOWS, THIS OTHER WORK WAS
DONE AT THE SAME TIME IT'S NOT
KNOWN WHETHER THERE WERE
WINDOWS BACK HERE.
THERE PROBABLY WAS A WINDOW OR
TWO BUT CERTAINLY THEY WERE NOT
THIS BIG AND THEY WOULDN'T HAVE
HAD THIS BOX TRIM.
IT DOESN'T REALLY MATTER
ANYTHING ELSE ON THE HOUSE.
SO I BELIEVE THAT THIS IS ALL
NON HISTORIC.
ANOTHER VIEW OF THE BACK OF THE
HOUSE.
HERE'S THAT A.C. UNIT WHERE THE
MINI PLATES WOULD GO
.
>> THERE IS AN ATTIC WINDOW, A
VERY STANDARD WOOD ATTIC WINDOW
THAT WOULD BE LOST BECAUSE PART
THE PROPOSAL IS TO TAKE THE HIT
ROOF THAT'S CURRENTLY ON THE
SECOND FLOOR AND MAKE INTO A
GABLE IN ORDER TO GIVE IT MORE
HEADROOM ON THE INTERIOR.
HERE'S THAT FOUNDATION MODERN
FOUNDATION I WAS TELLING ABOUT.
THIS USED TO BE THE PORCH.
NOW IT'S AN ENCLOSED INTERIOR
SPACE.
IT IS NICE THAT THEY SET IT IN
FROM THE CORNER.
THE SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR
APPRECIATES THAT NOW NOW WE'RE
ON THE SOUTH SIDE OF THE HOUSE
AGAIN.
NOW YOU CAN SEE LET'S SEE.
LET'S SEE.
LET ME DO I HAVE A GOOD BIT NOW
SEE THIS IS ALL THIS IS ALL
SORT OF NATURAL STONE NOT COLD
STONE.
I MIGHT NOT HAVE A GOOD PICTURE
OF THE THE CUT STONE WHICH IS
REALLY GORGEOUS ON THE NORTH
ELEVATION WHICH DOESN'T MATCH
THE OTHER ELEVATIONS WHICH IS
STRANGE BUT THIS THIS BAY
WINDOW IS BEHIND THAT FENCE I
SHOWED HERE'S THE FENCE POST
AND I INCLUDED THIS BECAUSE
THEY'RE PROPOSING TO HAVE A NEW
EGRESS.
WELL AND YOU WOULDN'T WANT TO
UNDERNEATH YOUR BAY WINDOW IT'S
QUESTIONABLE WHETHER THAT WOULD
BE ALLOWED BY BUILDING CODE AND
BUT EVEN IF IT THAT WOULDN'T BE
AN IDEAL PLACE TO TRY TO ESCAPE
FROM.
THIS IS THE WINDOW THAT WHERE
THE EGRESS WALL WOULD GO.
IT'S PROBABLY TWELVE FEET BACK
FROM THE FRONT CORNER OF THE
HOUSE AGAIN NOT IDEAL TO PUT IT
THIS CLOSE TO THE STREET BUT
THE OTHER THERE ARE TWO OTHER
WINDOWS ON THE OTHER SIDE AND
IN THE OPENING THAT WAS FILLED
IN IN THE BACK BUT BECAUSE
OF THE FLOOR LAYOUT AND THE
STAIRS COMING DOWN IT WOULDN'T
MAKE SENSE TO HAVE YOUR EGRESS
WINDOW WELL RIGHT NEXT TO THE
STAIRS COME IN OR WHERE THERE'S
ALREADY A BASEMENT DOOR TO THE
OUTDOORS.
>> A COUPLE MORE PHOTOS OF THE
FENCE.
THIS IS THE NE CORNER.
YOU CAN SEE WHERE THE EIGHT
FOOT REAR FENCE BACK HERE IT'S
THE SIX FOOT SIDE FENCE EIGHT
FOOT FENCE IS REQUIRED HGC
APPROVAL FROM THE COMMISSION.
OTHER FENCES ARE USUALLY SIX
FEET AND UNDER OUR STAFF
APPROVAL.
ALL RIGHT.
LET'S GO THROUGH THE SUBMISSION
FROM THE APPLICANT.
THESE WERE UPDATED AS OF TODAY.
HERE'S THAT CRAWL SPACE WITH A
NEW FOUNDATION THAT I WAS
TALKING ABOUT ON THE BACK
CORNER OF THE HOUSE.
THIS IS THE LOWER LEVEL THIS IS
THE PROPOSED LOWER LEVEL HERE
WE'VE GOT AN EGRESS WINDOW
CASEMENT EGRESS WINDOW
MAINTAINING THE WIDTH OF THE
OPENING WHICH IS GOOD JUST
GOING DOWN FATHER LOOKS LIKE
THIS IS ALSO QUMU NEW WINDOW
WHERE THAT PATCHES IN THE BACK
WHICH I THINK IS A GREAT IDEA
AND THIS BIT THAT IS CMU NOW IS
PROPOSED TO BE NEW CMU PART
OF THE APPLICATION IS TO
REPLACE TO TO UNBUILD THE STONE
BASEMENT WALLS AND REBUILD THEM
IN ORDER TO GET TO THE
UNDERPINNING THAT'S IN THE
BASEMENT AND REMOVE IT AND DIG
THE BASEMENT DOWN TONIGHT TO A
NINE FOOT HEAD ROOM AND THEN TO
REBUILD THE WALLS WITH CMU AND
REPLACE THE STONES ABOVE GRADE
.
THAT'S HOW THAT'S PART OF THE
BIGGEST ITEM THE WORK ITEM IN
THIS APPLICATION.
THE OTHER PART IS TO REMOVE THE
THE ROOF FRAMING THAT'S THERE
NOW AND REPLACE WITH SCISSORS
TRUSSES.
YEAH, IT'S IT'S IN OUR PICTURE
I THINK YOU'RE GOING TO HAVE TO
LOOK AT IT.
YOU MIGHT HAVE TOLD ME IF I
COULD GET A BETTER VIEW OF THAT
A LITTLE BIT WASHED OUT LIKE
ZOOM IT OUT TOO.
BUT I'M PROBABLY ALSO GOING TO
LEAVE THAT FOR THE ARCHITECT TO
EXPLAIN.
BUT THESE ARE REVISED DRAWINGS
BASED ON SOME COMMENTS MADE AT
THE REVIEW COMMITTEE AND THAT
CLARIFIED WHAT THE PROPOSAL IS
WHICH IS APPRECIATE IT.
NOW WE'RE BACK TO THAT ADDRESS
WINDOW HERE WE ARE FROM THE
INTERIOR STRAIGHT UP CASEMENT
WINDOW THE THE OTHER THREE
WINDOWS AND THEN A NEW FOURTH
WINDOW ARE SUPPOSED TO BE
REPLACED.
THEY'RE JUST A SINGLE SASH.
I DON'T KNOW IF THEY'RE
OPERABLE OR NOT RIGHT NOW BUT
THEY WOULD LIKE TO REPLACE THEM
WITH ALUMINUM CLAD WITH SASHES
WHICH I DO THINK ON BASEMENT
WINDOWS IS APPROPRIATE BECAUSE
IF YOU DON'T HAVE CLADDING IT
PROBLEM WITH NEW WINDOWS A
LITTLE BIT MORE INFORMATION ON
THE WINDOW.
WELL, THERE'S NO ALUMINUM WILL
COVER WITH AN OPERABLE HALF
WHICH IS A LITTLE BIT UNUSUAL
BECAUSE USUALLY PEOPLE WANT
ESPECIALLY ON THE SOUTH SIDE
OF THE HOUSE TO GET LIGHT IN
HERE.
BUT I ALSO UNDERSTAND THE
DESIRE TO KEEP FROGS AND MICE
OUT OF THEIR SO THAT'S ONE WAY
OF OTHER WORK ON THE BACK
OF THE HOUSE INCLUDES TAKING
OUT A COUPLE OF THOSE MANY,
MANY WINDOWS WHICH IS FINE
BECAUSE MEETS ALL THE STANDARDS
BECAUSE THEY'RE NOT ORIGINAL
THIS WHOLE SECOND FLOOR IS NOT
ORIGINAL.
IT'S PROBABLY FROM THE 70S OR
80S I'M GUESSING BACK HERE THAT
GIANT PICTURE WINDOW WOULD BE
SHORTENED AND THE TRIM
SIMPLIFIED MODEL TRIM IT WOULD
MAKE IT A LITTLE MORE
PROPORTIONATE AND THE CHIMNEY
IS SHOWN THROUGHOUT FOR THE
INSIDE THE DRAWINGS ARE
PROPOSED WITHOUT THE CHIMNEY.
THIS IS A GOOD EXAMPLE OF WHERE
THE CHIMNEY WOULD BE AND HOW IT
WOULD BE IN THE WAY OF THE FOUR
POINTS LAID OUT IF IT WERE HERE
AND IT'S ALSO SHOWN IN THE
OTHER FOUR PLANTS I DIDN'T
INCLUDE THEM ALL HERE.
THERE IT IS ON THE INSIDE YOU
CAN SEE THE FRAMING AND THE THE
PROBLEMS WITH THE FRAMING ARE
EXPLAINED VERY WELL IN THE
APPLICATION.
YOU DON'T MAKE CODE A WHOLE LOT
OF STUFF ON HOUSES DON'T RE
CODE BUT THEY ARE TRYING TO
ADDRESS THIS.
HERE'S THE AREA OF LOW HEADROOM
FOR ALL THOSE MANY, MANY
WINDOWS ARE AND THE CURRENT HIP
ROOF WOULD BE CONVERTED TO A
REAR FACING GABAL THERE ARE
SOME DRAWINGS OF THE EXISTING
AND PROPOSED.
YOU CAN SEE THE NEW CABLE BACK
A COUPLE SKYLIGHTS SHORTEN
WINDOW
THE THE THE CABLE
DOESN'T LINE UP PERFECTLY
BECAUSE THIS CORNER IS AT BOTH
THE SAME WALL PLAIN AS THE TWO
STOREY WELL AND THIS ONE LIKE I
SHOWED YOU IS SET IN EIGHT
INCHES SO THEY START A LITTLE
DIFFERENTLY BUT THAT'S I THINK
THAT THAT'S ALMOST UNNOTICEABLE
AND I APPRECIATE THAT THEY'VE
TRIED TO MATCH THE ROOF, PITCH
THEIR AS BEST THEY COULD GIVEN
THAT SITUATION.
EVENTS ARE SHOWN HERE WHICH IS
WHICH IS GOOD FOR WHEN THIS IF
THIS PROJECT IS APPROVED AND
COMES TO ME THAT I CAN NOT HAVE
TO REQUIRE ALL OF THE
MECHANICAL PERMITS TO HAVE NEW
HTC STAFF RULES.
THERE'S A COUPLE OF GOOD
PICTURES OF THE CHIMNEY THAT I
PUT IT IN HERE SO WE CAN REFER
TO THOSE IF WE NEED TO.
AND FINALLY THE SITE PLAN
SHOWING THE FENCES.
SO HERE WE'VE GOT THE FENCE
MOVED FORWARD WITH A NEW GATE
TO MATCH THE FENCE.
IT SAYS AND
THOUGHT I HAD THIS
FIGURED OUT BEFOREHAND BUT SO
HERE'S THE SIX FOOT FENCE
HEIGHT AND THEN WE'VE GOT AN
EIGHT FOOT FENCE RIGHT BACK
HERE BY AN ACCESSORY BUILDING
THAT USED TO BE A BARN AND
CONNECTING THERE'S A LITTLE BIT
FILLED IN IN THE CORNER OF THE
WHERE THERE'S NO FENCE RIGHT
NOW KEEP THE EXISTING GATE
FENCE IN THE BACK AND THIS IS
ALSO EXISTING FENCE.
SO IT'S REALLY THIS PART THIS
WOULD BE MOVED UP.
THIS WOULD BE INFELD AND THIS
CORNER WOULD BE IN FOR THE
DEFENSE.
SO FROM THE SECRETARY
OF INTERIOR STANDARDS BEST
APPLY.
NO ONE SAYS A PROPERTY WILL BE
USED AS IT WAS HISTORICALLY OR
BE GIVEN A NEW USE THAT
REQUIRES MINIMAL CHANGE TO ITS
DISTINCTIVE MATERIALS FEATURES
SPACES AND SPATIAL
RELATIONSHIPS.
NO.
TWO SAYS THE HISTORIC CHARACTER
OF A PROPERTY SHALL BE RETAINED
AND PRESERVED REMOVAL
OF HISTORIC MATERIALS OR
ALTERATION FEATURES AND SPACES
THAT CHARACTERIZE A PROPERTY
SHALL BE AVOIDED, NO.9 SAYS NEW
ADDITIONS, EXTERIOR ALTERATIONS
OR RELATED NEW CONSTRUCTION
SHALL NOT DESTROY HISTORIC
MATERIALS THAT CHARACTERIZE THE
PROPERTY.
THE NEW WORD SHALL BE
DIFFERENTIATED FROM THE OLD AND
SHALL BE COMPATIBLE WITH THE
MASSING SIZE SCALE AND
ARTIFICIAL FEATURES TO PROTECT
THE HISTORIC INTEGRITY OF THE
PROPERTY AND ITS ENVIRONS,
NO.10 SAYS NEW ADDITIONS AND
ADJACENT OR RELATED NEW
CONSTRUCTION WILL BE UNDERTAKEN
IN SUCH A MANNER THAT IF
REMOVED IN THE FUTURE THE
ESSENTIAL FORM AND INTEGRITY
OF THE HISTORIC PROPERTY WILL
BE UNIMPAIRED.
I SELECTED SOME GUIDELINES FROM
THE SECRETARY INTERIOR AND FROM
ANN ARBOR.
THERE ARE MANY, MANY MORE THAT
COULD BE APPLIED HERE JUST ONE
FOR THE YOU KNOW THE MOST MOST
OBVIOUS GUIDELINES FOR NEW
CONSTRUCTION.
IT'S APPROPRIATE TO DESIGN NEW
FEATURES SO THEY ARE COMPATIBLE
WITH THE HISTORIC CHARACTER
OF THE SITE DISTRICT AND
NEIGHBORHOOD.
IT'S NOT RECOMMENDED TO
INTRODUCE NEW CONSTRUCTION
OF THE BUILDING SITE WHICH IS
VISUALLY INCOMPATIBLE IN TERMS
OF SIZE SCALE DESIGN MATERIALS,
COLOR AND TEXTURE OR WHICH
DESTROYS HISTORIC RELATIONSHIPS
ON THE SITE AND THE GUIDELINES
FOR ROOFS RECOMMENDED TO RETAIN
AND PRESERVE ROOFS AND THEIR
FUNCTIONAL DECORATIVE FEATURES
THAT ARE IMPORTANT IN DEFINING
THE OVERALL HISTORIC CHARACTER
OF THE BUILDING.
THIS INCLUDES THE ROOF SHAPE
DECORATIVE FEATURES SUCH AS
CHIMNEYS AND ROOFING MATERIAL
AND OTHER HISTORIC DISTRICT
DESIGN GUIDELINES FOR ROOFS.
IT'S APPROPRIATE TO RETAIN AND
MAINTAIN ORIGINAL HISTORIC
ROOFING MATERIALS
ROOF SHAPE
DORMERS, CUPOLAS CHIMNEYS AND
BUILTIN OR DECORATIVE GUTTERS
FROM DOWNSPOUTS FROM THE ANN
ARBOR DESIGN GUIDELINES FOR
MASONRY WALLS, TRIMS AND
FOUNDATIONS.
IT'S APPROPRIATE TO RETAIN
ORIGINAL MASONRY AND MORTAR
WHENEVER POSSIBLE WITHOUT THE
APPLICATION OF ANY SURFACE
TREATMENT AND TO PROVIDE
ADEQUATE DRAINAGE TO PREVENT
WATER FROM STANDING ON FLAT
HORIZONTAL SURFACES.
IT'S ALSO APPROPRIATE
REPOINTING ONLY THOSE MORTAR
JOINTS WHERE THERE'S EVIDENCE
OF MOISTURE PROBLEMS OR
SUFFICIENT MORTAR MISSING TO
ALLOW WATER TO STAND IN THE
MORTAR JOINT ALSO APPROPRIATE
IS DUPLICATING OLD MORTAR AND
COMPOSITION COLOR TEXTURE JOINT
SIZE METHOD APPLICATION INJURY
PROFILE.
IT IS NOT APPROPRIATE TO USE
POWER TOOLS THAT CAN DAMAGE
MASONRY UNITS TO REMOVE MORTAR
AND USE MORTAR CONTAINING HIGH
AMOUNTS OF PORTLAND CEMENT WITH
A HISTORIC MORTAR IS SOFT AND
DID NOT CONTAIN CEMENT FROM THE
DESIGN GUIDELINES FOR SAFETY
CODES.
IT'S APPROPRIATE TO COMPLY WITH
BARRIER FREE AND SAFETY CODES
IN A MANNER THAT ENSURES THE
PRESERVATION OF CHARACTER
DEFINING FEATURES.
OK, I'M GOING TO GO BACK UP
HERE TO THE DRAWING SET AND I'M
GOING TO SEE IF I MISSED
ANYTHING FROM THE STAFF
COMMENTS.
THE MAIN ROOF STRUCTURE IS TWO
BY FOUR RAFTERS THAT ARE TWENTY
FOUR INCHES ON CENTER THE SILL
HEIGHT OF THE EGRESS WINDOW
WOULD BE LOWERED SO THAT IT'S
FIVE FEET FIVE INCHES INSTEAD
OF ONE FOOT ELEVEN
STAFF HAS
CONCERNS ABOUT DISASSEMBLING
AND REASSEMBLING THE FOUNDATION
WALL WHETHER THE NEW APPEARANCE
WILL MATCH AND STAFF ALSO HAS
CONCERNS ABOUT THE CHIMNEY
REMOVAL SINCE THAT'S GENERALLY
NOT CONSIDERED APPROPRIATE
UNDER BOTH THE SECRETARY
OF INTERIOR'S GUIDELINES AND
THE INTERIOR HISTORIC DISTRICT
DESIGN GUIDELINES.
BUT I THINK I HIT ALL OF MY
OTHER COMMENTS SO THAT'S IT FOR
ME.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH, MISS
THATCHER.
WE'LL NOW MOVE ON TO THE REVIEW
COMMITTEE.
COMMISSIONER QUIJANO AND MYSELF
,WE'RE ON THE REVIEW COMMITTEE
SO WHY DON'T YOU GO FIRST WITH
YOUR REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
PLEASE?
I DON'T HAVE A WHOLE LOT MORE
TO ADD.
STAFF REPORT WAS PRETTY
THOROUGH AND THE APPLICATION
WAS WELL ORGANIZED WHICH IS
MUCH APPRECIATED.
BUT JUST TO MENTION THAT THERE
WAS QUITE A BIT OF DISCUSSION
WALKING AROUND THE PROPERTY
ABOUT THE STONE FOUNDATION
WALLS AND WE TALKED ABOUT
POSSIBLE METHODS OF YOU KNOW,
HOW THAT WOULD BE DOCUMENTED
AND AND THEN READ RECONSTRUCTED
.
SO IF THERE'S ANY QUESTIONS
ABOUT THAT LATER WE'LL TALK
ABOUT THAT ALSO THE THE NEW
ROOF FRAMING IT SEEMS LIKE OUR
CONCERNS WERE ADDRESSED BY THE
UPDATED DRAWINGS BUT CONCERNS
ABOUT HOW THE THE HEADS OF THE
WINDOWS WOULD BE TREATED OR
POTENTIALLY IMPACTED OR NOT SEE
THE ABOUT THE CHIMNEY AS WE
COULD SEE IN THE PHOTOGRAPHS
THAT IT'S NOT VERY ORNATE
FEATURE BUT IT IS A CHARACTER
DEFINING FEATURE OF THE
PROPERTY.
A LOT OF THE NEIGHBORING HOMES
HAVE A VERY SIMILAR FEATURE.
SO IT'S OF THE THE SETTING AND
THE DISTRICT I'D SAY THAT'S ALL
I HAVE IN MY NOTES HERE.
>> THANK YOU VERY MUCH
COMMISSIONER HONO LET'S SEE.
>> SO I WILL I WILL ALSO
MENTION THE THE FOUNDATION
STONES THEY WERE THERE WAS A
LOT OF GRANITE BLOCK
FOUNDATIONS IN THAT AREA AND I
WILL SAY THAT FOR WHATEVER
REASON ON THE NORTH SIDE OF THE
HOUSE THE FOUNDATION STONES
WERE EXTREMELY IMPRESSIVE LIKE
REALLY, REALLY NICE FOUNDATION
STONES AND YOU KNOW WHOEVER THE
MASON WAS THEY DID ALL THE TUCK
POINTING AND KIND OF WAS A
LITTLE SLOPPY HERE AND THERE
LIKE THAT ONE POINT IT IT JUST
LOOKED REALLY GOOD AND IT JUST
REALLY REITERATED THE NEED TO
BE REALLY CONFIDENT.
MASON AND THE TEAM HAVE A
REALLY GOOD PLAN FOR HOW HOW
THEY'RE GOING TO ENSURE THAT
THAT WHEN ALL IS SAID AND DONE
THAT THAT WALL STILL RETAINS
THAT THAT CHARACTER
.
SAME QUESTION FOR THE PORCH BUT
THE PORCH JUST DIDN'T YOU KNOW
THE PORCH JUST LOOKED LIKE A
BEAUTIFUL NORMAL STONE PORCH.
WELL, YOU IF YOU WIPE AWAY THE
THE EXTRA MORTAR BUT ANYWAY SO
SO BOTH OF THOSE WERE THOUGHTS
AND CONCERNS THEY ARE GOING TO
DIG TO DO THE NEW FOUNDATION
THEY'RE DIGGING A HOLE ALL THE
WAY AROUND THE HOUSE FOUR FEET
FROM THE HOUSE.
>> I THINK THAT'S TO BE ABLE TO
GET A MASON ON EACH SIDE
OF THAT WALL.
THEY'RE NOT UNDERPINNING THIS
RIGHT.
EVERYTHING'S COMING DOWN AND SO
THEY'RE DIGGING I GUESS LIKE A
TEN FOOT TRENCH ALL THE WAY
AROUND THE HOUSE.
SO THERE'S ROOM FOR NINE OR TEN
FEET LET'S SAY.
>> AND YOU KNOW, WE KIND
OF LOOKED AROUND THERE WAS LIKE
SOME LIKE WHAT WOULD BE
IMPACTED BY THAT AND THERE WERE
SOME TREES THAT WE'RE GOING TO
HAVE TO GO.
BUT THERE WAS NOTHING LIKE
MAJOR I MEAN OTHER THAN JUST
THE IMPACT OF WHAT THAT WOULD
BE.
THERE'S NOTHING LIKE THAT
SEEMED LIKE WAS GOING TO BE
LOST BECAUSE OF THAT THOSE
TREES RIGHT THERE BEING THE
EXCEPTION PROBABLY.
BUT THOSE AREN'T LIKE LANDMARK
OR HISTORIC TREES.
WE DID KIND OF TALK ABOUT THE
FENCE QUITE A BIT LIKE THE
FENCE WILL FEEL LIKE IT'S
ENCLOSED IN MUCH MORE OF THE
YARD LIKE IT DEFINITELY FEELS
LIKE THE THE MOVE FORWARD WILL
IN TURN GIVE MUCH MORE PRIVATE
YARD AND WE JUST WANTED TO MAKE
SURE IT WAS SIX FEET ALL THE
WAY AROUND SO IT WASN'T KIND
OF IMPACTING THIS THE KIND
OF THE FEEL OF THE SETTING
THERE THAT IT FEELS QUITE OPEN
THERE.
BUT WE KIND OF GOT THE FEELING
LIKE EVEN BRINGING THE FENCE
FORWARD AS LONG AS IT STAYS AT
SIX FEET IT WOULDN'T IMPACT
THAT TOO MUCH AT LEAST THE LOOK
OF IT.
I THINK THAT THE FUNCTION WILL
BE, YOU KNOW, QUITE IMPACTFUL
FOR THE HOMEOWNER.
BUT THEN THE OTHER THING IT
DOES IS THE DRIVEWAY IS KIND
OF RIGHT THERE AND IT SHRINKS
THE DRIVEWAY DOWN SO THAT IF
YOU WERE GOING TO PARK A CAR ON
THAT DRIVEWAY YOU THE ONLY SPOT
TO PARK IT IS RIGHT IN FRONT
OF THE IN THE FRONT OPEN SPACE
RIGHT THERE.
SO LIKE IF THERE'S A CAR IN THE
DRIVEWAY IT'S NOT GOING TO BE
KIND OF BACK ANYMORE.
IT'S GOING TO BE RIGHT THERE
AND AND BASICALLY THAT'S FINE.
YOU CAN PARK ON THE DRIVEWAY.
WE WANTED TO MAKE SURE THAT WE
COULDN'T PARK LIKE TOO WIDE ON
THAT DRIVEWAY.
IT'S A REALLY WIDE CURB CUT
WHICH IS UNUSUAL.
SO THAT'S WHY THE SITE PLAN IS
SPECIFICALLY SHOWING US ONE CAR
ON THE SITE PLAN AND THE
CHIMNEY I GUESS THIS IS A GOOD
WAY TO SEE IT FROM THIS THAT
YOU COULD BARELY SEE IT FROM
THIS SIDE.
IT IS THERE FROM THE OTHER SIDE
YOU SAW THOSE PICTURES?
YEAH, I THINK WE'LL JUST WE'LL
TALK ABOUT THE CHIMNEY IN
DISCUSSION AND ONE THING TO
NOTE IS JUST THIS IS IS IT LIKE
A GREEK REVIVAL OR YOU KNOW,
IT'S SORT OF A TYPICAL OLD WEST
SIDE HOUSE.
A LOT OF THEM LOOK LIKE THIS.
THEY'VE GOT THE OVERHANGING
FRONT GABLE AND THEN ON THE
SIDES THEY HAVE A FLAT SOFFIT
SO LIKE A LEVEL SOFFIT SOME
SOME HOMES ON THE OLD WEST SIDE
LIKE THE QUEEN AND VICTORIAN
KIND OF LOOK AT HAVE THIS
SOFFIT THAT KIND OF EXTENDS
LIKE WITH THE RAFTER.
SO THIS IS A FLAT SOFFIT WHICH
I THINK IS THERE THEY'RE USING
THAT TO ACHIEVE LIKE THE ENERGY
GOALS THAT THEY WANT AND THAT
THEY IN THE IN THE PACKET
THEY'RE SHOWING HOW THEY'RE
DOING THAT WHILE MAINTAINING
LIKE ALL THE SOFT BOARDS WILL
COME OFF BUT THEN THEY'RE GOING
TO BE REPLACING HOPEFULLY THE
ORIGINAL ONES AND PUTTING THEM
BACK EXACTLY WHERE WE'RE SEEING
THEM NOW.
SO I THINK TO ME THE THE
BIGGEST CONCERNS ARE I JUST
WANT TO HEAR MORE ABOUT THE
ROOF BECSE ALL THE RAFTERS
ARE COMING OFF AND WHAT I JUST
WANT TO HEAR ABOUT LIKE THE
OVERHEAD LOOKING AT THE FRONT
CABLE ESPECIALLY THE SAME
QUESTION FOR THE REAR GABAL HOW
MUCH WHAT IS BEING WHAT IS
GOING TO BE THERE LIKE WHEN ALL
THE RAFTERS COME OFF?
>> IS THAT OVERHANG STILL GOING
TO BE THERE?
WILL WILL THIS THE SOFT BOARDS
ON THE RAKE LIKE WILL THE
FREEZE BOARDS STILL BE THERE OR
IS LIKE WHAT'S COMING DOWN AND
WHAT'S GOING BACK UP ONSITE?
WE JUST KIND OF TALKED ABOUT
JUST GENERALLY BUT I'D LIKE TO
HEAR MORE SPECIFICS ABOUT IT
LIKE GABAL RETURN AND
EVERYTHING LIKE IS THAT COMING
DOWN AND BEING REBUILT OR NOT?
>> SO THAT'S MY QUESTION AND
THEN THE OTHER MAJOR QUESTION
SO THE ROOF AND THEN ALSO JUST
THE FOUNDATION I'D LIKE TO HEAR
A LITTLE MORE ABOUT THE PLAN
FOR LIKE I SAID, JUST JUST
REBUILDING THE FOUNDATION
WITHOUT DESTROYING THAT
CHARACTER
.
>> LAST COMMENT IS JUST THAT
THIS IS A VERY
COMPLEX PROPOSAL
I THINK AND I BET IT COULD BE
EASIER IF THEY WERE PROPOSING
AN ADDITION AND EVERYTHING
WOULD KIND OF WORK, YOU KNOW,
IF YOU JUST BUILD IT IN
ADDITION YOU DON'T NEED TO BE
SO LIKE YOU KNOW, CAREFUL ABOUT
WHAT YOU'RE DOING I SUPPOSE.
BUT BECAUSE THEY'RE REALLY
DOING A LOT OF BASEMENT WORK
AND THEN REDOING THAT BACK
PORTION ALL WITHIN THE
FOOTPRINT OF THE HOUSE, I THINK
THIS MAKES US MORE OF A
COMPLICATED PROPOSAL.
BUT I APPRECIATE THE THE EFFORT
INTO TRYING TO DO THIS WITHOUT
CHANGING THE FOOTPRINT OF THE
EXISTING HOUSE.
>> I THINK THAT'S TO BE
APPRECIATED.
>> SO SO NOW WITH THE APPLICANT
PLEASE COME FORWARD AND STATE
YOUR NAME AND ADDRESS FOR THE
RECORD PLEASE.
>> AND BASICALLY YOU'VE HEARD
THE STAFF REPORT YOU'VE HEARD
THE REVIEW COMMITTEE REPORT.
SO NOW THIS IS YOUR TURN TO YOU
CAN KIND MAKE A GENERAL
COMMENTS OR OR COMMENT ON ANY
OF THE QUESTIONS THAT HAVE BEEN
RAISED SO FAR.
OK, GOOD EVENING EVERYONE.
MY NAME IS CASEY FLEET AND I'M
WITH IN PARALLEL ARCHITECTS AND
BUILDERS.
WE HAVE OFFICES HERE AT ANN
ARBOR AND GRAND RAPIDS SO I'LL
GIVE YOU OUR ANN ARBOR ADDRESS
FOUR SIX TWO ONE FREEDOM DRIVE
ANN ARBOR, MICHIGAN FOUR EIGHT
ONE TWO EIGHT OH YEAH.
THANKS FOR THE OPPORTUNITY TO
TO SPEAK WITH YOU ALL AND IT
WAS GOOD TO WALK THE SITE WITH
SOME OF YOU EARLIER THIS WEEK.
HOPEFULLY SOME OF THE SOUNDS
LIKE THE DRAWINGS THAT WE
SUBMITTED TODAY HAVE BEEN
HELPFUL TO CLARIFY SOME OF THE
QUESTIONS THAT CAME UP ABOUT
THE FOUNDATION, THE FENCE, THE
THE ROOF STRUCTURE SO I'D BE
HAPPY TO TO SPEAK REALLY ABOUT
ANY PART OF THE APPLICATION.
MAYBE I'LL JUST SPEND A FEW
MINUTES ADDRESSING THOSE AREAS
A LITTLE BIT FURTHER.
IT SOUNDS LIKE THERE'S STILL
SOME QUESTIONS ON THAT.
EXCUSE ME ONE SECOND.
I'M JUST GOING TO GRAB A DRINK.
YEAH, OK.
SO I'LL START WITH THE
FOUNDATION.
IT WAS REQUESTED THAT WE INVITE
THE MASON WOULD BE DOING THE
WORK TO THE MEETING TONIGHT AND
I APPRECIATE REQUEST I WAS NOT
ABLE TO DO THAT BECAUSE WE
HAVEN'T SELECTED A SPECIFIC
MASON.
WE HAVE WALKED THE SITE WITH
FIVE DIFFERENT CONTRACTORS FOUR
OF WHOM WERE MASONS, ONE
OF WHOM HAS REPLACED ABASEMENT
OF HIS OWN.
SO WE'VE GOTTEN A LOT
OF PROFESSIONAL INPUT ON THIS
BUT WE'LL BE DOING THE YOU
KNOW, THE FINAL SELECTIONS
HOPEFULLY OVER THE NEXT MONTH
OR TWO.
SO I I DIDN'T WANT TO BRING
SOMEONE SPECIFIC.
IT SEEMED A LITTLE OUT
OF SEQUENCE BUT I DID CALL ONE
OF THE MASONS WHO WE WALKED THE
SITE WITH WHO I FELT HAD YOU
KNOW, ONE OF THE BEST PLANS FOR
ADDRESSING THE EXISTING
FOUNDATION.
SO I'LL JUST WALK YOU THROUGH
THE KIND OF THE STEPS OF THE
PROCESS YOU AS BEST I CAN.
I WILL ALSO SAY THAT THE INTENT
OUR COMPANY WILL BE THE GENERAL
CONTRACTOR AS WELL AS THE
ARCHITECT.
SO WE WOULD BE OVERSEEING ALL
OF THIS WORK SO I CAN I CAN
ASSURE YOU THAT WHAT I TELL YOU
WILL BE OUR GOALS FOR WHOEVER
WE SELECT SO THE PROCESS IS
ACTUALLY FAIRLY STRAIGHTFORWARD
.
WE WOULD DISASSEMBLE THE STONE
WORK.
THERE WILL LIKELY BE POWER
TOOLS NEEDED LIKE CHIPPING
CHIPPING HAMMERS FOR EXAMPLE
THAT WOULD BE ONLY DIRECTED AT
THE MORTAR, THE EXISTING MORTAR
JOINTS.
THE STONE IS FAR HARDER THAN
THE MORTAR AND IT'S NOT LIKELY
TO DAMAGE THE STONE ONCE PRIOR
TO THIS THOUGH WE WOULD
CAREFULLY PHOTOGRAPH EACH
ELEVATION AND DOCUMENT THE
LOCATION OF EACH OF THE STONES
.
THE STONES WOULD BE TAGGED.
THEY'D BE SET IN A PILE EACH
PHASE OF THE OF THE BUILDING OR
EACH SECTION OF STONE WOULD BE
HAVE ITS OWN PILE SO THEY
WOULDN'T GET MIXED TOGETHER AND
THEN AS DAVID MENTIONED, YOU
KNOW, THERE'S THERE'S QUITE A
VARIETY OF TYPES OF MORTAR
JOINTS IN THIS BUILDING AS IT
IS NOW.
AND SO THERE WOULD BE A CLEANUP
PROCESS THAT WOULD HAPPEN WHERE
PARTICULARLY THE THE FIELD
STONE WHICH IS I'D SAY THE MOST
CAKED IN MORTAR WOULD ALMOST
CERTAINLY NEED TO BE
SANDBLASTED TO GET A LOT OF THE
MORTAR OFF AND OUR GOAL IS TO
MAKE THIS THING LOOK AS AS
CLOSE TO ORIGINAL AS IT DID AND
MUCH, MUCH BETTER AND MUCH
CLEANER THAN IT DOES NOW.
SO IN FACT I THINK, YOU KNOW,
AT THIS POINT GIVEN THE STATE
OF THE PORCH PARTICULARLY, IT'S
REALLY THE RIGHT THING TO DO TO
TAKE IT APART AND PUT IT BACK
TOGETHER EVEN IF YOU WERE JUST
TRYING TO MAKE IT DURABLE, YOU
KNOW, AND MAKE IT FIX THE
ISSUES THAT ARE CURRENTLY THERE
.
SO LET ME SEE IF I'M FORGETTING
YOU KNOW.
WELL, OF COURSE WE'LL OF COURSE
DO OUR BEST TO MATCH THE
ORIGINAL MORTAR AS FAR AS WE
CAN AND TO THE BEST OF OUR
ABILITY DETERMINE THE ORIGINAL
MORTAR JOINTS SIZE.
THAT'S MUCH EASIER TO DO
OF COURSE WHERE THE THERE'S NOT
SO MUCH TALK POINTING.
SO THE NORTH SIDE OF THE HOUSE
BUT YOU KNOW, WE'LL DO OUR BEST
TO MAYBE CLEAN UP A MORTAR
JOINT OR TWO BEFORE WE TAKE IT
APART AND TRY TO DOCUMENT THE
THE SIZE OF THE MORTAR JOINT
.
I THINK THAT IS THAT IS
GENERALLY OUR APPROACH TO THE
KIND OF TAKING IT APART,
CLEANING IT UP, STORING IT,
DOCUMENTING IT AND THEN THE NEW
WALL AS WE SHOW IN OUR OUR WALL
SECTION WILL BE CONCRETE BLOCK
UP TO GRADE AND THEN WE WOULD
USE A STONE FROM ABOVE FROM
BELOW GRADE EXCUSE ME FROM
ABOVE BASICALLY ABOVE GRADE.
SO AT THAT POINT THE MASON
ASSURED ME THEY WOULD DO THEIR
BEST TO TO REPLACE THE STONES
EXACTLY WHERE THEY ARE.
THEY DID TELL ME THAT THEY HAVE
TRIED THIS BEFORE AND IT'S GONE
WELL GENERALLY.
BUT JUST TO BE REALISTIC, THE
YOU'RE STACKING VERY IRREGULAR
STONES AND SOMETIMES THEY JUST
CAN'T GET THEM QUITE BACK AND
EXACT ORIENTATION THEY SAID
THEY WOULD DO THEIR BEST TO GET
IT AS CLOSE AS POSSIBLE.
BUT I I CAN'T PROMISE THAT THE
PERFECT ORIENTATION OF EVERY
SINGLE STONE YOU KNOW, I THINK
TO TO THE BEST OF THEIR
ABILITIES THEY WOULD THEY WOULD
DO THAT AND AT THE VERY LEAST
GETTING THEM IN THE SAME
LOCATION.
BUT YOU KNOW, YOU HAVE TO KEEP
IN MIND THERE THEY'RE IRREGULAR
SHAPES AND THEY HAVE TO FIT
TOGETHER ACROSS A VERY LARGE
LARGE AREA.
SO THAT'S THAT'S OUR PLAN.
I WILL ADMIT THERE'S STILL A
LITTLE BIT STRUCTURALLY TO
FIGURE OUT WITH KNOW CURRENT
CURRENT FOUNDATION STRUCTURE
CODE AND STACKED FIELDSTONE AND
HOW THAT WILL TIE INTO THE
CONCRETE LOG.
THAT'S NOT AN ASPECT THAT'S
INCLUDED IN OUR PROPOSAL YET
BUT I CAN ASSURE YOU THAT
WHATEVER WILL HAPPEN WOULD NOT
BE WOULD NOT AFFECT ITS
APPEARANCE ON THE OUTSIDE.
THERE MIGHT BE SOME REINFORCING
THAT'S NEEDED ON THE INSIDE THE
LAST AREA OF THE FOUNDATION
THAT MAYBE I SHOULD JUST
BRIEFLY MENTION IS THE THE
EXISTING CMU BLOCK INFELD'S AND
AS YOU MENTIONED OUR PLAN IS TO
KEEP THOSE AS DIFFERENT FROM
THE THE FIELDSTONE AND THE CUT
STONE.
SO WE'RE PROPOSING A WINDOW
WHERE THERE'S A EXISTING INFILL
ON THE BACK SIDE.
YEAH, THAT ONE RIGHT THERE
WHICH WOULD BE A WINDOW INTO
THE NEW BATHROOM AND THEN ON
THE NORTHEAST CORNER CORNER
PLANNING TO TO BASICALLY USE
THE BLOCK ALL THE WAY UP AND
PASS THAT.
HMM.
SO THAT'S OUR THAT'S OUR PLAN.
ARE THERE ANY QUESTIONS OR
COMMENTS ON THE FOUNDATION?
OF COURSE CASEY RIGHT HERE IN
THIS CORNER SEE WHERE THE OLD
FOUNDATION MEETS THE NEW ONE ON
THAT CORNER IS DOES THIS WALL
CONTINUE ON THE INSIDE?
IS THERE ANOTHER TEN OR TWELVE
FEET OF STONE FOUNDATION OR HAS
THAT ALL BEEN BLOWN OUT ON THE
INTERIOR?
I ONLY BRING IT UP BECAUSE IT
MIGHT BE HELPFUL TO HAVE A
LITTLE EXTRA STONE.
>> YEAH, WELL THANK YOU FOR I
BELIEVE IT DOES CONTINUE.
I CAN'T SAY WHETHER IT'S IT'S
DEFINITELY A MASONRY WALL.
I CANNOT SAY WHETHER IT'S CMU
OR STONE.
OK, BUT TO THAT POINT KEEP IN
MIND WE'LL HAVE A LOT OF STONE
THAT'S CURRENTLY UNDERGROUND
THERE WILL BE BRINGING UP TO SO
WE HAVE THAT IN MIND.
>> WHO IS THAT STONE SIMILAR TO
WHAT WE'RE SEEING HERE OR IS
MORE LIKE A RUBBLE WHERE IT'S
JUST AS WELL AS YOU GO LOWER IT
BECOMES MORE RUBBLE BUT YOU
KNOW, DEFINITELY FOR SOME
DISTANCE BELOW GRADE THIS STONE
WORK CONTINUES.
YEAH, YEAH.
AND ABSOLUTELY REGARDING
WHATEVER YOUR CONVERSATION WITH
THE MASON COME TO BE FROM THE
LOOK OF IT WHEN I WAS ON SITE
AND WHEN I'M LOOKING HERE THAT
THE MORTAR JOINTS
BECAUSE THEY
WERE DONE AT DIFFERENT TIMES BY
DIFFERENT DIFFERENT CONTRACTORS
I SEE DIFFERENT MORTAR JOINT
WIDTHS AND I ALSO SEE DIFFERENT
DEPTHS OF RAKE RAKE IS THE HOW
MUCH OF THE MORTAR DO YOU BRUSH
AWAY TO CREATE A REVEAL
SOMETIMES HAVE A VERY DEEP RAKE
WHERE THERE'S LIKE A CREVICE
BETWEEN THE STONES WHICH YOU
KNOW, CAST THEM IN HIGHER
RELIEF BUT EXPOSES THE MORE
WATER DAMAGE THEN AND THEN A
VERY SHALLOW RAKE.
YOU KNOW, IT'S ALMOST RIGHT
SMOOTH WITH THE FACE AND IT'S A
MIXED BAG OF THOSE HERE.
THIS IS A QUESTION AS MUCH FOR
US AS IT IS FOR FOR THE
ARCHITECT IN THE CASE OF THAT
WHEN YOU ARE NOW GOING TO DO IT
ALL AT ONCE CONSISTENTLY WITH
WITH A MASON, DO WE HAVE A
PREFERENCE OR IS THERE YOU
KNOW, THERE ARE DIRECTIONS WHAT
WHAT WITH MORTAR JOINT I IT
DOESN'T SEEM TO ME LIKE WE WANT
TO REPLICATE THE VARIETY
OF MORTAR JOINT WIDTHS OR DEPTH
OF RAKE.
I THINK THERE SHOULD BE
SOMETHING CONSISTENT BUT IS
THERE A PREFERENCE THAT WE WANT
TO SEE?
>> WHERE DO WE GO WITH THAT?
CAN I JUST ONE PIECE
OF INFORMATION WHICH IS I ALSO
NOTICED THIS AND FROM MY
OBSERVATION ON THE NORTH THE
NORTH SIDE IS LIKE THE LEAST
DISRUPTED MORTAR ON THE HOUSE
AND YOU KNOW, SO I MEAN TO ME
THAT'S THE CLOSEST TO ORIGINAL
JOIN WE HAVE AND REPLICATE
THAT.
SO I WOULD PROBABLY YEAH THAT
BUT IT'S ALSO WORTH NOTING THAT
LIKE DIFFERENT TYPES OF STONE,
YOU KNOW, MIGHT HAVE A
DIFFERENT MORTAR JOINT LIKE
THERE'S THERE'S STONE AND
THERE'S THIS THESE VERY LARGE
CUT STONES.
SO YOU KNOW, I COULD COULD
CONSIDER THAT THERE MIGHT BE
YOU KNOW, A SPECIFIC JOINT USE
FOR THE FIELD STONE AND A
SPECIFIC JOINT FOR THE CUTS.
OH, I SEE.
YEAH, THAT MAKES SENSE.
I WAS THINKING MORE WITH THE
FIELD STONE ITSELF.
YEAH.
I THINK THERE'S GOING TO BE A
DIFFERENT TYPE OF MORTAR JOINT
FOR CUTS DOWN.
IT'S EASIER TO MATCH BECAUSE
THE FACES OF AN MADE SMOOTH
YEAH YEAH.
ANY OTHER FOUNDATION QUESTIONS
FOR THE APPLICANT HERE.
OK OK NEXT I'LL MOVE ON TO THE
ROOF APOLOGIZE THAT THOSE
BUILDING SECTIONS ARE A LITTLE
WASHED OUT BUT I MIGHT ASK YOU
IF YOU COULD TRY TO ZOOM IN ON
MAYBE THE EXISTING SECTION AND
GIVE ME ONE SECOND HERE I'M
GOING TO OPEN A DIFFERENT
DOCUMENT OK YEAH I'M HOPEFUL WE
CAN GET IT TO WORK.
DID IT PRINT SOME LIKE YOU HAVE
PRINTED INTO THE PRINTOUT OK?
YES OK SO I CAN ONLY SPEAK TO
THAT SO DURING THE WALKTHROUGH
THERE ARE A NUMBER OF QUESTIONS
THAT I VERY MUCH APPRECIATE IT
KIND OF GETTING AT EXACTLY HOW
THE THE PROPOSED NEW TRUSSES
WOULD COME TOGETHER WITH THE
EXISTING WALL STRUCTURE AND
WINDOWS AND SOME EXISTING
ELEMENTS ON THE HOUSE.
AND SO WE TOOK A LITTLE TIME
THIS WEEK TO FURTHER DEVELOP
THE DRAWINGS TO SHOW OUR
THINKING ON THIS.
SO IN THE TOP RIGHT CORNER
OF THIS SHEET YOU CAN SEE AN
EXISTING DETAIL AND THE I THINK
ONE OF THE QUESTIONS HAD TO DO
WITH HOW CAN ONE REMOVE A TWO
BY FOUR RAFTER AND PUT IN A
TRUST AND NOT OBSTRUCT THE
WINDOW BELOW IT AND FROM THE
BEST OF OUR ABILITIES TO TO
TELL THE HERE IT'S COMING UP ON
THE SCREEN.
YEAH.
TOP RIGHT.
AND IF YOU'RE ABLE TO ZOOM INTO
THE TOP RIGHT ANYMORE THERE WE
GO.
YEAH.
AS FAR AS YOU KNOW PERFECT.
OK SO AT THE VERY TOP OF THAT
WALL YOU CAN SEE A TOP PLATE IN
A KIND OF DARKER RECTANGLE SO
THAT'S THE EXISTING TOP PLATE
JUST BELOW YOU CAN SEE WHERE WE
BELIEVE THE TOP OF THE WINDOW
FRAMING IS WE HAVE NOT OPENED
UP THE WALLS TO CHECK EXISTING
SIZES.
SO WE'RE WE'RE PRESUMING WORST
CASE SCENARIO THERE'S NOTHING
THERE OTHER THAN A TWO BY FOUR.
SO BUT IN ANY CASE YOU CAN SEE
KIND OF WHERE THOSE EXISTING
ELEMENTS ARE.
YOU CAN ALSO SEE THE OVERHANG
WE BELIEVE JUST THE EXTENSION
OF THE RAFTER TAIL WITH A
FASCIA BOARD AND THEN A SOFFIT
BENEATH THE SOFFIT IS A
FRETBOARD THAT GETS INTERRUPTED
BY WINDOW TRIM.
SO IN THIS SECTION YOU'RE
SEEING THE THE WINDOW TRIM
WHICH IS NOT HISTORIC MATERIAL.
IT'S LIKE ALUMINUM WRAPPED TO
BUY MATERIAL WOOD MATERIAL.
AND AT THE TOP OF THAT THERE'S
A PIECE OF WOOD TRIM THAT DOES
RUN ALL ALONG THE SOFFIT
UNDERNEATH THE SOFFIT AND THAT
RUNS AROUND THE WHOLE HOUSE.
THE FRETBOARD RUNS AROUND THE
WHOLE HOUSE.
BUT AS I SAID, IT GETS
INTERRUPTED EVERY TIME THERE'S
A WINDOW THE WINDOWS ARE RIGHT
UP AGAINST USCIRF IT SO YOU
KNOW OUR INTENTION IS TO
REBUILD EVERYTHING ON THE
OUTSIDE JUST AS IT IS IN TERMS
OF ITS LOCATION PROPORTION AND
USING AS MUCH OF THE SALVAGE
MATERIAL AS WE CAN.
AND SO THE WAY WE'RE WE'RE
WE'RE PROPOSING TO DO THAT IS
OF COURSE TO VERY CAREFULLY
TAKE DOWN I WOULD SAY AT THE
VERY LEAST THE FASCIA BOARD,
THE SOFFIT, THE PIECE OF TRIM
WHICH IS YOU PRESUMABLY HELPING
TO HOLD THIS OFF IT UP AND THE
FREEBOARD YOU KNOW, OF COURSE
IF WE GET INTO IT AND WE DON'T
HAVE TO TAKE SOMETHING OFF, WE
WOULDN'T.
BUT I THINK AT A MINIMUM THAT'S
WHAT WE'D BE PLANNING TO REMOVE
CAREFULLY STORE AWAY AND SAVE
FOR REINSTALLATION AND THEN THE
RAFTERS THEMSELVES WOULD BE
REMOVED ALONG WITH THE COLLAR
TIES WHICH YOU CAN SEE KIND
OF IN THE TOP AT THE TOP
OF THAT SECTION WHICH FORM THE
CEILING.
AND THEN IF WE COULD COULD WE
ZOOM IN ON THE PROPOSED SECTION
KIND OF IN THAT SAME LOCATION?
YES.
A SEE OK, SO I WANT TO POINT
OUT WE DID VERY FAINT.
WE INDICATE THE EXISTING THE
EXISTING TOPLANE WHICH IS JUST
IT'S JUST ABOVE THE KIND OF TO
DARK TOP PLATES AT THE TOP
OF THE WALL.
IS EVERYBODY ABLE TO SEE THAT?
SO THAT'S THE EXISTING TOP WAY
THERE.
SO WE ARE PROPOSING TO LOWER
THAT TOP PLATE APPROXIMATELY
FOUR INCHES TO GAIN ENOUGH
SPACE FOR WHAT'S CALLED AN
ENERGY HILL ON THE TRUSS.
SO THAT WILL JUST ALLOW FOR A
LITTLE MORE INSULATION IN THAT
IN THAT PART OF THE HOUSE AND
STILL LEAVES ROOM FOR A WINDOW
HEADER IF WE NEED IT WITHOUT
CHANGING THE WINDOW AND THEN
THE TAIL OF THAT NEW TRUSS
WOULD EXTEND OUT JUST LIKE THE
RAFTER DOES NOW AS A TWO BY
FOUR AND BASICALLY GIVE US THE
SAME GEOMETRY THAT'S THERE NOW.
SO JUST BE A MATTER PUTTING
EVERYTHING BACK, YOU KNOW, JUST
LIKE IT WAS SO IT SHOULDN'T BE
TOO COMPLICATED.
I MEAN, YOU KNOW, GEOMETRICALLY
ANYWAY IT'S ALL TRYING TO BE
WHAT WAS THERE NOW BUT BUT THE
STRUCTURE OF THE TRUSS JUST
ALLOWS US TO OPEN UP THE FLOOR
PLAN FOR THE UPPER LEVEL AND
PROVIDE MORE CEILING HEIGHT
WITHOUT HAVING A REALLY INTENSE
NETWORK OF COLUMNS AND BEAMS
COMING DOWN THROUGH THE HOUSE.
WE DID TRY WE DID DESIGN THIS
THING WITHOUT THE TRUSSES AND
TRYING TO TRYING TO PRESERVE
THE EXISTING FRAMING AND IT
JUST GOT TO BE QUITE THE
NETWORK OF COLUMNS AND BEAMS
AND AND REALLY STARTED
NEGATIVELY INFLUENCE THE SPACES
BELOW.
SO THAT'S KIND OF HOW WE GOT TO
THIS IDEA OF THE TRUSS.
SO HOPEFULLY I'VE ANSWERED YOUR
QUESTIONS BUT PLEASE WHAT COST
CAN YOU COMMENT SAME SAME SORT
OF QUESTION BUT SORT CAN YOU
JUST SPECIFICALLY SAY WHAT'S
GOING ON WITH JUST LET'S TALK
ABOUT THE FRONT FACADE.
THE THERE'S AN OVERHANG WITH
THIS SOFFIT.
THERE'S BOARD AND THEN THERE'S
THE THE RETURNS THERE'S FASCIA
BOARD.
SO ALL THOSE THINGS ARE
CHARACTER DEFINING FEATURES
OF THE HOUSE.
SO LIKE ARE ALL OF THOSE COMING
OFF AND BEING PUT BACK ON OR
ARE LIKE THE RETURNS STAYING OR
THE OVERHANG STAYING OR
BUILDING THE OVERHANG?
THAT'S A GOOD QUESTION.
I MEAN IT'S CERTAINLY OUR
INTENT IS IF THEY DO COME OFF
TO PUT THEM BACK EXACTLY AS
THEY ARE.
BUT TO BE HONEST, I HAVEN'T
FULLY THOUGHT THROUGH THE SORT
OF SEQUENCING THAT I MEAN I
COULD IMAGINE A VERSION WHERE
THAT WALL IS IS SOMEHOW BRACED
DURING THE DURING THE TRUSS
INSTALLATION AND WE DON'T USE
THE GABAL INTRUST OR MAYBE WE
SISTER OR GABAL AND TRUSS ONTO
IT.
I MEAN THAT SEEMS LIKE BEST
CASE SCENARIO AND SO THAT'S FOR
THE STREET FACING FACADE.
I THINK THAT WOULD BE OUR
INTENTION.
BUT YOU KNOW, WE NEED TO LOOK
INTO THAT A LITTLE FURTHER
STRUCTURALLY.
OK, SO ON THE ON THE REAR
FACING SIDE WHICH I KNOW IT
DOESN'T MATTER QUITE TOO MUCH,
YOU KNOW THAT'S THAT'S A
DIFFERENT SITUATION BECAUSE
WE'LL HAVE A NEW YOU KNOW,
DORMER NEW CABLE AND RIGHT UP
AGAINST IT.
SO MAYBE IT'S NOT AS CRITICAL
AND THAT AND THAT FACE TO DO
SOMETHING LIKE THAT.
>> OK, ANY OTHER QUESTIONS
LIKE
THE ROOF REMOVAL FOR THE
APPLICANT?
UM, WHEN YOU REALLY THOUGHT
ABOUT IT I THINK WE TALKED
ABOUT THIS I THINK THAT THIS
MIGHT BE A SEQUENCING QUESTION.
I KNOW THERE'S NO NEW WORK
PROPOSED FOR THE DORMER BUT AS
PART OF THE ROOF REMOVAL AND
RECONSTRUCTION ARE THAT HOW HOW
WOULD THEY BE IF AT ALL
IMPACTED BY THAT
RECONSTRUCTION?
YEAH, THAT'S A GOOD QUESTION.
SO CURRENTLY OUR PLAN IS TO
BASICALLY OVERBUILD THE DORMER
ON TO THE TRUSSES TO MATCH YOU
KNOW, OF COURSE SIMILAR IT WAS
WILL TAKE OF THE EXTERIOR TRIM
OFF THE DORMER.
I'M NOT SURE IF WE WOULD BE
ABLE TO BRING UP A PHOTO OF THE
NORMAL JOE.
I CAN TELL YOU THE PAGE I SEE
THIS PAGE SO HTC THREE B ZERO
AND YEAH THAT TOP IMAGE THERE
SO YEAH, YOU CAN SEE AS FAR AS
TIME GOES THE TRIM ON THE
DORMER AND THE RETURNS THAT
THAT JUST PASSED DO MATCH
BASICALLY THE REST OF THE HOUSE
AND OUR INTENT WOULD BE TO
REMOVE THAT TRIM AND ALTHOUGH
ACTUALLY NOW THAT I'M SAYING I
LOVE I DON'T SEE WHY WE
COULDN'T AT I'M WONDERING IF
IT'D BE POSSIBLE TO SIMILARLY
BRACE THAT FACADE DURING
CONSTRUCTION.
I DON'T KNOW FOR SURE BUT WE
HAVE TO REBUILD THE ROOF
STRUCTURE BECAUSE THE ROOF
STRUCTURE OF THE DORMER IS
ACTUALLY EVEN AS EVEN UNDER
BUILT LESS BUILT THAN THE MAIN
HOUSE.
SO WE'RE OUR PLAN IS OVERBUILD
THAT WITH RAFTER FRAMING ON TOP
OF THE NEW TRUSSES TO YOU KNOW,
TO TO BRING THOSE UP TO
CODE BASICALLY AND THE DETAIL I
MEAN OVERHANG DETAIL WOULD BE,
YOU KNOW, CONSTRUCTED EXACTLY
AS IT IS NOW.
IT'S APPLIED TO THE OUTSIDE.
IT'S NOT IT'S NOT LIKE IN THE
CASE OF THE YOU KNOW, THE EVE
WHERE THAT THE TRUSS THE
RAFTERS EXTEND OUT IS SOMETHING
THAT'S BEEN APPLIED ONTO THE
FACADE.
OK, GOOD THAT ANY OTHER ROOF
QUESTIONS FROM THE COMMISSION?
IT DOES NOT LOOK LIKE ARE THERE
ANY OTHER QUESTIONS OR DID YOU
HAVE MORE COMMENTS FOUNDATION
ROOF WAS THERE ANY OTHER
COMMENTS ON YOUR LIST AND THEN
WE'LL SEE IF THERE'S MORE
QUESTIONS I BELIEVE THAT JILL
DID A GREAT JOB OF RUNNING YOU
ALL THROUGH THE PROPOSAL AND
HITTING YOU KNOW, HITTING ALL
THE IMPORTANT POINTS OF OUR
PROPOSAL.
SO I DON'T BELIEVE I HAVE
ANYTHING FURTHER TO ADD.
I HAD A QUESTION JUST ON THE
BECAUSE THERE WERE SEVERAL
DIFFERENT OPTIONS FOR THE
EGRESS COVER .
YOU SHOWED A FEW DIFFERENT
PICTURES.
SO WHAT WHAT ARE YOU PROPOSING
FOR THAT?
YEAH, WE CAN GO TO THE SO WE WE
DID SO A FEW DIFFERENT PRODUCTS
.
>> THEY ARE WE HAVEN'T SELECTED
A SPECIFIC PRODUCT YET BUT
GENERALLY OUR WHAT WE HAVE
SELECTED IS SOME SORT
OF ALUMINUM FRAME WHICH OPENS
ON AND SOME SORT OF A HINGED
MECHANISM WHICH WOULD BE EITHER
CLAD WITH PLEXIGLASS OR SOME
SORT OF TRANSPARENT MATERIAL OR
IT WOULD BE MORE OF A GREAT
LIKE AN ALUMINUM GRATE AND YOU
KNOW, OUR OUR INTENTION IS JUST
THAT IT'S SOMETHING THAT WOULD
PREVENT ANIMALS FROM GOING IN
AND DOWN IN THE WINDOW.
WELL, AS WELL AS YOU KNOW,
PEOPLE FROM FALLING IN IT
ACCIDENTALLY AND IT'S SOMETHING
THAT CAN BE OPERABLE FROM THE
OUTSIDE IF I YOU KNOW IF I'M
HONEST WE HAVE IT ONE REASON WE
HAVEN'T PUT MAYBE AS MUCH
THOUGHT INTO THIS AS THE REST
OF THE PROPOSALS THAT IN OUR
MINDS IT'S ALWAYS IT'S BEHIND
THE FENCE SO IT WON'T BE
VISIBLE FROM THE STREET BUT IT
WAS BROUGHT UP AT OUR WALK
THROUGH THAT SOMEBODY IN THEORY
COULD TAKE DOWN THE FENCE AND
IT WOULD BE VISIBLE.
SO I THINK OUR INTENT IS JUST
THAT IT'S MINIMAL.
IT'S BUILT FROM, YOU KNOW,
DURABLE MATERIAL LIKE ALUMINUM
AND ALLOWS AS MUCH LIGHT IN AS
POSSIBLE AS WELL.
SO BASICALLY QUMU MORE OR LESS
UP TO GRADE.
YEAH, AND ABOVE GRADE WE'RE
ONLY BEGINNING TO SEE EITHER
ALUMINUM GRATING OR PLEXIGLAS.
YES, EXACTLY.
YEAH, KIND OF .
THERE'S A SECTION ON THE SCREEN
RIGHT NOW THAT SHOWS THEY CAN
JUST A SLOPED ELEMENT THAT
WOULD SIT ATOP THE QUMU.
YEAH AND I THINK THAT'S OUR
INTENT IS IT WOULD LOOK
SOMETHING LIKE THAT VERY GOOD.
ANY OTHER QUESTIONS AT ALL FOR
THE APPLICANT HERE NOW?
>> OK, CASEY, THANK YOU VERY
MUCH.
>> I REALLY APPRECIATE ALL
THOSE EXTRA COMMENTS.
THANK YOU.
WE'LL MOVE ON TO THE NEXT WE
MIGHT CALL YOU BACK UP IN A
MOMENT JUST TO SEE NOW.
BUT PLEASE TAKE A SEAT.
WE'RE GOING TO MOVE ON TO THE
PUBLIC COMMENT I BELIEVE.
>> YES.
SO I WOULD NOW LIKE TO OPEN A
PUBLIC HEARING FOR THIS ITEM.
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
PERSONS TO SPEAK FOR UP TO
THREE MINUTES ABOUT THIS
APPLICATION AT FIVE FORTY NINE
S FIRST STREET PUBLIC COMMENT
MAY BE MADE IN PERSON OR BY
CALLING IN USING THE VIDEO THE
INFORMATION DISPLAYED IN THE
MEETING AGENDA AND THE VIDEO
FEED.
>> DO WE HAVE ANYONE CALLING
IN?
NO ONE IS OK.
NO ONE CALLING IN AND NO ONE
SEEMS TO BE APPROACHING THE
PODIUM HERE.
SO I WILL NOW CLOSE THE PUBLIC
HEARING PORTION OF THIS
APPLICATION AND I WILL ASK IF
ANY COMMISSIONER WOULD LIKE TO
MAKE A MOTION
PLEASE I MOVE
THAT THE COMMISSION ISSUE A
CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS
FOR THE APPLICATION AT FIVE
FOUR NINE SOUTH FOUR ST. A
CONTRIBUTING PROPERTY IN THE
OLD WEST SIDE HISTORIC DISTRICT
TO REBUILD BOTH THE MAIN ROOF
AND REAR EDITION ROOF ALTAR OR
NON ORIGINAL WINDOW.
REMOVE THE CHIMNEY, REMOVE AN
ATTIC VENT IN THE FRONT GABLE,
REMOVE THIS EXCUSE ME STONE
FOUNDATION AND PORCH WALLS AND
REBUILD THE STONE PORTION ABOVE
GRADE.
REPLACE WOOD BASEMENT WINDOWS
WITH ALUMINUM CLAD WOOD HOPPER
WINDOWS CONVERT AN EXISTING
BASEMENT WINDOW INTO AN EGRESS
WINDOW, INSTALL A MINI SPLIT
AND INSTALL A WOOD FENCE THAT
IS SIX TO EIGHT FEET TALL AS
PROPOSED.
THE WORK IS COMPATIBLE AN
EXTERIOR DESIGN ARRANGEMENT
TEXTURE MATERIAL AND
RELATIONSHIPS TO THE REST THE
BUILDING AND THE SURROUNDING
AREA AND MEETS THE SECRETARY
OF THE INTERIOR STANDARDS FOR
REHABILITATION AND GUIDELINES
FOR REHABILITATING HISTORIC
BUILDINGS IN PARTICULAR
STANDARDS ONE TO NINE AND TEN
IN THE GUIDELINES FOR
ALTERATIONS ADDITIONS WINDOWS
MASONRY AND ROOFS AS WELL AS
THE ANN ARBOR HISTORIC DISTRICT
DESIGN GUIDELINES PARTICULARLY
AS THEY PERTAIN TO ADDITIONS
AND SAFETY CODES SUPPORT OK
THAT WAS MOVED BY COMMISSIONER
FORTNER AND SECONDED BY
COMMISSIONER KIYONO.
IS THERE ANY DISCUSSION ON THE
MOTION?
>> DO YOU WANT TO?
WELL YEAH LET'S THERE'S A LOT
TO TALK ABOUT HERE.
WHY DON'T WE BREAK IT UP INTO
SOME DIFFERENT SECTIONS AND
LET'S START AT THE BOTTOM AND
GO UP I GUESS SO WE'LL START
WITH THE FOUNDATION AND LET'S
TALK ABOUT THE FOUNDATION.
DO YOU HAVE A COMMENT?
I APPRECIATE THE LEARNING MORE
ABOUT PROCESS.
CONSIDER GIVE ME A BIT MORE
CONFIDENCE IN THE WORK THAT'S
GOING TO BE DONE AND THAT THE
REASON THAT THERE'S SUPPOSEDLY
STRONGLY CONSIDERING IS DONE
BEFORE SOUNDS LIKE SO THAT'S
GOOD BUT YEAH, IT'S GOING TO BE
A LITTLE TRICKY TO GET IT JUST
RIGHT BUT I FEEL GOOD ABOUT
THAT PROPOSAL.
>> ANY OTHER COMMENTS AND THE
FOUNDATION IS ANYONE NOT BUYING
THE WHAT THEY'RE GOING TO DO
WITH THE FOUNDATION OR SEEMS
LIKE I'M NOT SEEING ANYONE
SAYING THAT SO I ALSO AGREE I
THINK THAT WITH COMMISSIONER
KAHANER AND I WOULD ADD TO THAT
THAT CASEY'S COMMENT ABOUT THEM
BEING THE GENERAL CONTRACTOR AS
WELL JUST GIVES ME FAITH THAT
YEAH, IT'S GOING TO BE A
PROCESS BUT THAT THEY'RE GOING
TO HANDLE IT.
OK, SO THERE'S THERE'S SOME
WINDOW CHANGES.
>> THEY'RE REMOVING THE FRONT.
GABAL THEN THING EVERYTHING BUT
THE ROOF THAT THEY WANT TO DO
TO THE EXTERIOR HERE WE'LL GET
TO THE CHIMNEY AND WE'LL GET TO
THE ROOF BUT I'M NOT SEEING
ANYONE RAISING THEIR HAND FOR
ANY OF THOSE THINGS.
SO LET'S GET TO THE ROOF THEN
IT SEEMS LIKE WHEN THEY'RE DONE
IT WILL LOOK HOW IT LOOKS NOW.
BUT NEW OR BUT NEWER I GUESS
THE SHINGLES WILL BE NEW AND
EVERYTHING ELSE WILL BE KIND
OF RUN RENOVATED BUT IT'S GOING
TO BE TARPS, YOU KNOW,
SCAFFOLDING AND STUFF IN THE
MEANTIME.
BUT YEAH, ANYONE HAVE PAUSED
WITH THAT OR HAVE WE HEARD
ENOUGH AND SEEN THE DRAWINGS
AND HEARD FROM CASEY
.
WHAT DO WE THINK IT'S A DRY
SUMMER.
>> YEAH YEAH YEAH.
I THINK THAT THIS IS
INTERESTING BECAUSE NOT MANY
OF THE OF THE HOMES THAT WE SEE
GO THIS ROUTE LIKE I WAS SAYING
ON SITE LIKE YOU KNOW, IF
YOU'RE A LOT OF HOMES DO WANT
TO CATHEDRALS YOU KNOW THE ROOF
MEANING PUT THE INSULATION FROM
THE FLOOR UP INTO THE ROOF SO
THEY GAIN THAT SPACE.
BUT MOST OF THEM DO IT SOME
OTHER WAY KEEPING THE RAFTERS
IN PLACE.
BUT IT JUST SOUNDS LIKE THIS
HOUSE IT'S JUST NOT AN OPTION
FOR WHAT THE APPLICANT IS
TRYING TO ACHIEVE.
I GUESS BOTH ENERGY WISE ENERGY
SAVING WISE WHICH IS
COMMENDABLE AND ALSO JUST THE
PROGRAM THAT THEY'RE THAT
THEY'RE TRYING TO ACHIEVE IN
THE HOUSE.
SO THIS IS A DIFFERENT APPROACH
.
I DON'T SEE ANYONE SEEMINGLY
WITH WITH AN ISSUE WITH IT LESS
COMMON ON THE ROOF.
NO, I WOULD I WOULD JUST SAY IN
IN EXPERIENCE OF BUILDING ROOFS
YOU CAN PUSH RAFTER'S 24 INCHES
APART IF THEY'RE BETHIA LIKE
TWO BY SIXES.
OH SURE.
BY TENS OR YOU CAN GET AWAY
WITH A DINNER LIKE A TWO BY
FOUR IF THEY'RE ON CENTER OR OR
CLOSER.
BUT WHAT THEY'RE WHAT THEY'VE
GOT TO START WITH WHAT THEY'RE
WORKING WITH IS THE SMALLEST
TYPE OF RAFTER WITH THE
GREATEST DISTANCE BETWEEN THEM.
SO I THINK IT'S I THINK IT'S I
THINK IT'S RISKY AS IT IS.
I THINK IT'S I DON'T THINK I
DON'T EVEN IT'S A TYPE
OF STRUCTURE THAT IS VERY SAFE
TO KEEP.
I WOULD I WOULD THINK THAT THE
PENALTY FOR THE DECKING WOULD
SAG OR SOMETHING LIKE THAT
SURPRISED?
>> YEAH IT IS SURPRISING.
I THINK IT'S IT'S VERY COMMON
IN A LOT OF THE HISTORIC HOMES
TO BE TO BUY FOR RAFTERS.
TWENTY FOUR CENTER I THINK IT'S
IT'S THE OLD GROWTH WOOD IT'S
THE FACT THAT THEY'RE ACTUALLY
TWO INCHES BY FOUR INCHES
INSTEAD OF DOWN AND IT'S JUST
THE THE SHEER STRENGTH OF ALL
THOSE OLD NAILS HOLDING ALL
THESE THINGS TOGETHER.
SO SO THEN HOW ABOUT THE
CHIMNEY?
>> LET'S TALK ABOUT THE
CHIMNEY.
ONE OF OUR FAVORITE SUBJECTS
HERE, THE HISTORIC DISTRICT
COMMISSION.
ANY COMMENTS ON REMOVING THE
CHIMNEY?
I HAVE SOME CONCERN ABOUT
LOSING IT.
I MEAN I KNOW IT'S NOT THE MOST
DECORATIVE, UM, SHOWSTOPPER
CHIMNEY BUT IT'S IT'S PART
OF THE TEXTURE FEATURES OF THE
HOME AND I WOULD I'D BE SAD
SICK OF YEAH.
AND JUST LOOKING AROUND THE
REST OF THE HOMES ON THAT
STREET IT REALLY WAS YOU COULD
SEE ALL OF THEM DEFINED
CHARACTER AND LIGHT ON STREET.
AGREE DISAGREE.
I AGREE TO WHAT CAN YOU
ELABORATE JUST I THINK IT'S A
CHARACTER DEFINING FEATURE
OF THAT HOUSE OF THOSE OF THAT
NEIGHBORHOOD, OF THOSE HOUSES
IN THE NEIGHBORHOOD AND THEN TO
REMOVE IT KIND OF TAKES AWAY
SOME OF THE CHARACTER AND THE
DEFINITION OF THAT AGE
OF HOUSE.
MM HMM.
IT'S TRUE.
OK,
THERE IT IS RIGHT THERE.
OK, YEAH.
I THINK THAT MY TAKE IS THAT
IT'S IT'S IT CAN YEAH.
>> I THINK IT'S A CHARACTER
DEFINING FEATURE BUT TO ME IT'S
LIKE A HISTORIC WINDOW ON THE
REAR OF A HOUSE THAT YOU DON'T
WANT TO LOSE IT BUT FOR WHAT
THE OWNER WANTS TO DO IT IS IT
GETS LOST BECAUSE IT'S YEAH
IT'S IT'S NOT WELL THAT'S THE
METAPHOR DOESN'T REALLY WORK.
IT'S IT'S I GUESS WHAT I'M
SAYING IS A REAR REAR WINDOW
OF A HOUSE WHEN WHEN THERE'S A
REAR EDITION DOES GET LOST AND
THAT'S A CAREER DEFINING
FEATURE.
SO THERE'S JUST AN EXAMPLE
OF WHERE WE SOMETIMES DO
APPROVE REMOVING CHARACTER
DEFINING FEATURES FOR THE RIGHT
SEASON.
>> YES, BUT THAT IS NOT SEE THE
YOU KNOW THAT THE PUBLIC VIEW
THE YOUR EXAMPLE THAT IS TRUE.
YEAH.
THAT IS VERY TRUE IN OTHER
CASES WHERE WE'VE SEEN WHERE
YOU KNOW, THEY COULD BE
SUPPORTED WITHIN AN ATTIC DON'T
HAVE THAT HERE.
YEAH.
YOU KNOW SO I'M NOT SURE IT'S
FEASIBLE.
WELL MAYBE IT COULD BE
SUPPORTED BY THE THE NEW
STRUCTURE.
YOU KNOW THEY'RE THEY'RE
PUTTING NEW STRUCTURE THERE.
YEAH.
RIGHT.
NOT TO SAY THAT THEY COULDN'T
REMOVE IT ON THE FIRST THE
INTERIOR INTERIOR OF THE HOME
BUT TO SOMEHOW RETAIN THE
EXTERIOR APPEARANCE
OK, SO
THOSE ARE CHIMNEY COMMENTS
CONSIDERED.
WE HAD CIRCLE BACK TO THAT WITH
THE MOTION BUT LET'S JUST TALK
ABOUT THE REST HERE
.
WELL, I GUESS BEFORE WE MOVE
ON, DOES ANYONE WANT TO SPEAK
IN FAVOR OF REMOVING THE
CHIMNEY BECAUSE FOR ANY REASON
OK, ALL RIGHT.
I GUESS BESIDES ME, I FEEL LIKE
THAT CHAIR I YEAH, I CONCUR
WITH WITH YOUR SENTIMENTS IS IS
GOING THROUGH CONSIDERABLE
EXPENSE TO REUSE THE STONE
FOUNDATION.
I THINK THAT YOU KNOW, IF I
WERE TO PICK AND CHOOSE WHAT'S
A MORE IMPORTANT CHARACTER
DEFINING FEATURE, I WOULD
CERTAINLY LOOK AT THAT THAT
STONE FOUNDATION.
I THINK THAT THIS THAT
CERTAINLY I HAVE A GREAT DEAL
OF CONFIDENCE IN THE
ARCHITECTURE TEAM TO FIGURE OUT
HOW THEY COULD KEEP IT IF
THAT'S WHAT THE DECISION
OF THIS BODY IS.
BUT I THINK IT'S PERHAPS OVERLY
COSTLY AND SOMEWHAT UNNECESSARY
SAVING IT FOR THE SAKE
OF SAVING IT.
THANK YOU.
ANY OTHER CHIMNEY COMMENTS?
WELL, I WOULD SAY THAT IT'S
EXCEPT FOR THE NON HISTORIC
WINDOWS, YOU KNOW, IT'S THE
LEAST IMPACTFUL OF THINGS THAT
THEY'RE PROPOSING.
>> VERY GOOD.
JUST WHAT YOU HAVE A CHIMNEY
COMMENT OR SOMETHING?
JUST HOLD ON BECAUSE MAYBE
WE'LL HAVE MORE AND THEN YOU
CAN COME UP AND AND TALK.
SO SO LET'S LET'S MOVE THE
CHIMNEY ASIDE FOR A SECOND.
WE'VE GOT THE FENCE.
THE FACT THAT THEY'RE DIGGING
THIS FOUR FOOT TRENCH AROUND
THE HOUSE, ANYTHING ANYTHING
THEY'RE WORTH DISCUSSING WELL
BEFORE THEY CAME BEFORE YOU I
THINK YOU ADDRESSED MY CONCERN
THAT THIS SEEMED JUST, YOU
KNOW, A QUICK LITTLE SCAN
AROUND ON GOOGLE MAPS OF THE
NEIGHBORHOOD THAT'S I NOTICED
JUST THREE YEARS OLD AND THERE
WEREN'T ANY OTHER FENCES LIKE
THAT SO CLOSE TO THE STREET
THAT BIG THAT CLOSE, THAT SORT
OF SOLID.
BUT I THINK YOU SAID YOU DIDN'T
THINK IT WOULD IMPACT IT'S HARD
TO GET A FEEL WITHOUT BEING
THERE THAT MOVING THAT SIX FOOT
SOLID PRETTY SOLID FENCE THAT
WELL AND PRETTY GOOD YOU KNOW,
LEGS THAT CLOSE TO THE STREET
DIDN'T YOU KNOW, WAS COMPATIBLE
IN THE NEIGHBORHOOD IN THE
CONTEXT THE NEIGHBORHOOD A
LOWER FENCE WOULD BE MORE
COMPATIBLE.
YEAH, IT'S A GOOD POINT.
IT DIDN'T YEAH.
I DON'T KNOW.
I DON'T I DON'T WANT TO SPEAK I
HAD I HAD SOME RESERVATIONS
ABOUT HOW CLOSE IT WAS MOVING
TO THE FRONT NOT FRONT CORNER
OF THE HOUSE.
I KNOW WE'VE GOT YOU KNOW THAT
THERE'S A WINDOW AND MAYBE
ANOTHER PHOTO THERE'S A WINDOW
KIND OF CLOSE TO THAT CORNER
THERE YOU GO BUT YOU KNOW A
FENCE COULD BE REMOVED IT YEAH.
IT'S MORE IN THE THE
NEIGHBORHOOD.
I DON'T THINK IT HAS ANY IMPACT
ON THE HOUSE SO MUCH.
I MEAN RIGHT NOW IF THAT FRONT
OPEN AREA DOES FEEL QUITE
SPACIOUS AND WITH THE
NEIGHBOR'S DRIVEWAY RIGHT THERE
AS WELL IT'S JUST VERY OPEN BUT
IT DIDN'T DIDN'T DISTURB ME TOO
MUCH.
YOU PICTURE HIM WALKING DOWN
THE STREET AND THERE IT'S
FENCING.
>> IT'S TEMPORARY.
YEAH.
THERE'S THERE'S A HANDFUL
OF THIS YOU KNOW, IT'S NOT LIKE
EVERY HOUSE HAS IT OR SOMETHING
BUT THERE'S THEY'RE SCATTERED
AROUND THE NEIGHBORHOOD.
I WOULD SAY SIX FOOT HIGH
FENCES RIGHT AT THE HOUSE.
YEAH RIGHT THE HOUSE CORNER
EXACTLY.
ANY OTHER COMMENTS ABOUT SITE
STUFF.
OK, AND THEN LET ME JUST SEE IF
THERE'S OH WHAT ABOUT THE THE
SKYLIGHTS?
THEY'RE BOTH ON THE NORTH SIDE
.
I THINK THIS IS KIND OF TYPICAL
FOR WHAT WE SEE SO OK AND THEN
I'M GUESSING IT'S JUST SPEAKING
WINDOWS HERE.
SO SO THE OTHER THING WOULD
MAYBE BE THE REMOVAL OF THE
BASEMENT WINDOWS.
BUT AGAIN I THINK THIS IS
PRETTY COMMON AND APPRECIATED
TO YOU KNOW, TO BE INSTALLING
WHAT THEY ARE INSTALLING IN THE
BASEMENT WINDOW OPENING.
SO I'M GUESSING THERE WON'T BE
ANY COMMENTS.
OK, SO NOW YES, MISS THATCHER
SORT OF RANDOM PUT THEM AT
GREAT.
YOU SHOULD FOLLOW UP WITH ME OR
JOHN BARRETT BECAUSE I'M
LOOKING AT THE THE SITE PLAN
DRAWING NOW AND REALIZING THAT
EVEN THOUGH THE PARKING IS IN A
DRIVEWAY IT'S AN ENTIRELY IN
THE FRONT YARD.
IT'S NOT IT DOESN'T LEAD TO
ILLEGAL PARKING SPACE.
I'M REALIZING BECAUSE THE FENCE
IS IN THE WAY IF THE FENCE HAD
AN OPENING A GATE WIDE ENOUGH
FOR A CAR IT'S EIGHT FEET IS
EIGHT YOU CAN YOU CAN YOU FOR A
CAR CAN YOU CASEY COME ON UP TO
THE YEAH YEAH.
SO IF IF IF THE DRIVEWAY THAT
YOU'RE SHOWING ON HERE LEADS TO
A GATE THAT LEADS TO A PARKING
SPACE THEN YOU CAN KEEP THE
GATE SHUT AND PARK IN THE
DRIVEWAY IN FRONT OF THE HOUSE
BUT YOU CAN'T JUST STEP OFF THE
PARKING AT THE NEW FENCE
LOCATION.
SURE.
BECAUSE THEN IT'S NOT A YOUR
PARKING SPACE AND NO PARKING IS
REQUIRED.
BUT I MEAN THIS BEDROOM I'M
ASSUMING YOU'D WANT TO BE ABLE
TO PULL A CAR OFF THE STREET.
SO IF WE IF WE DIDN'T SHOW A
PARKING SPACE THEN IT WOULD BE
ACCEPTABLE IF YOU DIDN'T SHOW A
PARKING SPACE.
YES.
BUT THEN YOU'D HAVE YOUR CURB
CUT.
YEAH.
YOU'D HAVE TO GET RID OF THE
CURB.
CAN YOU HAVE A DRIVEWAY WITHOUT
A PARKING SPACE YOU'D HAVE GO
TO THE DRIVEWAY AND A CURB CUT
AND YOU WOULD GET A TICKET IF
YOU HAVE A PARK THERE DIDN'T
YOU SAY ON SITE THAT YOU COULD
PARK IN A DRIVEWAY IN THE FRONT
OPEN SPACE?
YOU CAN.
THAT'S WHY I'M SAYING IF THE
DRIVEWAY EXTENDS FARTHER BACK
LIKE AS IF THERE WERE A GATE
WIDE ENOUGH FOR A CAR SO THAT
YOU COULD PULL THROUGH BEHIND
THAT FENCE, YOU COULD ONLY PARK
IN THE FRONT OPEN SPACE IF THE
DRIVEWAY EXTENDS PAST THE FRONT
OPEN SPACE.
>> YES.
IF IT LEADS TO A LEGAL PARKING
ABOUT AN ILLEGAL PARKING SPOT
HAS TO BE BEHIND THE FRONT
OF THE HOUSE.
OK, YEAH AND I'M SORRY THIS IS
WHY IT'S HELPFUL WHEN THE
HISTORIC DISTRICT COORDINATOR
IS ALSO A CITY PLANNER BUT WELL
AND JUST WANT TO SAY I MEAN WE
WE HAVE ACTUALLY VERY RECENTLY
WORKED ON ANOTHER PROJECT WHERE
WE WENT VERY DEEP INTO THE
PARKING CODE FOR FOR A HOUSE SO
I DO KNOW WHAT YOU'RE TALKING
ABOUT, JILL, BUT MY ASSUMPTION
HERE WAS THAT WE'RE NOT WE'RE
NOT PROPOSING A NEW PARKING SO
WE'RE NOT PROPOSING ANYTHING
NEW FOR THE DRIVEWAY.
WE'RE REALLY NOT WE JUST WE ARE
NOT CHANGING THE DRIVEWAY AT
ALL.
THE FENCE IS COMING FORWARD BUT
IT DOES NOT IT'S NOT LIKE
CUTTING OFF THE DRIVEWAY.
THE DRIVEWAY DOESN'T CURRENT
DOES NOT CURRENTLY GO TO THE
BACK OR TO THE SIDE YARD
CURRENTLY THE PARKING SPOT IS
IN THE FRONT.
>> WE'RE NOT CHANGING AT ALL.
I GUESS I JUST WANT TO BE CLEAR
ABOUT THAT.
HOW FAR IS THERE RIGHT NOW
BETWEEN THE CURRENT FENCE AND
THE FRONT CORNER OF THE HOUSE
ABOUT ABOUT FIFTEEN FEET.
IT'S SHOWN ON OUR SIDE POINT
BUT LET ME JUST LOOK GOOD.
YOU FEEL PRETTY CLOSE TO THE
LENGTH OF A CAR, WHICH IS WHY I
DON'T THINK THIS WAS PROBABLY
QUESTION IN THE PAST BECAUSE
YOU GET MOST OF YOUR CAR BEHIND
THE FRONT CORNER OF THE HOUSE.
>> BUT I THINK BECAUSE OF THE
LANDSCAPING THAT'S NOT WHERE
HE'S PARKING OR THAT'S WHERE
THE PARKING I WANT TO SAY
THERE'S A PHOTOGRAPH SO LET ME
LET ME LET ME PUT IT THIS WAY
WHEN YOU APPLY FOR THIS IT
WOULD GET DENIED BECAUSE YOU'RE
MOVING A FENCE TO A NEW
LOCATION.
YOU'RE YOU'LL ONLY HAVE PARKING
IN THE FRONT YARD WHERE YOU
USED TO BE ABLE TO PARK FURTHER
BACK.
YOU CAN'T THEY'RE MAKING IT
SHALLOWER I GUESS I'M SAYING
RIGHT NOW THE DRIVEWAY DOES NOT
EXTEND PAST THE FRONT OF THE
HOUSE SO WE'RE NOT GRAVEL GOES
ALL THE WAY TO THE FENCE.
MAYBE YOU DON'T PARK.
NO, IT'S THAT'S A WALL THAT'S
THERE'S A GRAVEL WALKWAY FROM
THE DRIVEWAY TO THE DOOR.
I BELIEVE THAT.
CORRECT?
YEAH.
THAT'S NOT A PARKING SPACE.
I DON'T BELIEVE SO.
RIGHT THERE BY THE GUARDRAIL IS
YOUR CONCERN THAT WE'RE GOING
TO APPROVE THE FENCE LOCATION
AND THEN HAVE TO LIKE RE
APPROVE IT OR SOMETHING OR WELL
JUST THAT YOU WON'T BE ABLE TO
PARK ANYMORE IN YOUR FRONT YARD
BY VIRTUE OF MOVING THAT FENCE.
>> BUT CAN WE APPROVE THE FENCE
AND THEN THEY CAN DO IT DO
SOMETHING ELSE WITH IT.
YEAH YEAH.
THIS GETS ABSOLUTELY AND YEAH I
WANTED THAT MORE AS A WARNING
WE REALLY NEED TO SIT DOWN AND
LOOK THIS UP OR EVEN BETTER
JUST CALL JOHN BARRETT AND ASK
HIM.
SURE.
AND SHOW HIM THE SITE PLAN
BECAUSE HE'LL BE ABLE TO TELL
YOU RIGHT AWAY AND MAYBE
THERE'S A GRANDFATHERING THING
HERE BUT SINCE YOU'RE MOVING
THE FENCE AND MAKING THE WHOLE
AREA SHALLOWER FOR CARS, I'M
CONCERNED ABOUT IT.
OK FOR ALL RIGHT.
AND WHILE YOU'RE UP HERE,
CASEY, YOU HAD A COMMENT ON THE
CHIMNEY ON THE ROOF OF THE
CHURCH.
YEAH.
IF I MAY COME IN ON THE
CHIMNEY.
YES.
I MEAN I UNDERSTAND THIS IS
MAYBE A DIFFICULT ONE.
THERE'S SORT OF LIKE THERE'S
DIFFERENT OPINIONS.
I JUST I HAVE A PRACTICAL SOME
PRACTICAL CONCERNS AND MAYBE
ALSO JUST A PHILOSOPHICAL
COMMENT.
SO FIRST OF ALL, THIS CHIMNEY
IT IS VERY SMALL AND IT IS SET
BACK PRETTY FAR ON THE HOUSE.
IT IS ONLY VISIBLE FROM ONE
SIDE OF THE HOUSE.
SO I GUESS TO ME IT'S A IT'S
RELATIVELY FAIRLY MINOR ELEMENT
ON THIS HOUSE.
I COULD CERTAINLY UNDERSTAND,
YOU KNOW, A LARGER CHIMNEY WITH
MORE OF A PRESENCE BEING
SOMETHING TO REALLY BE
CONCERNED ABOUT.
YOU KNOW, AS I CAN UNDERSTAND
THE FOUNDATION OR THE FRONT
PORCH, THESE ARE THESE ARE
ELEMENTS THAT ONE WOULD
IMMEDIATELY NOTICE WHEN WALKING
BY THE HOUSE.
BUT THE CHIMNEY IS REALLY YOU I
WAS REALLY SET BACK.
IT'S VERY SHORT AND IT'S
GENERALLY SMALL.
SO I GUESS FOR ME I WILL SAY TO
TRY TO THINKING ABOUT THIS AS A
BUILDER AND AN ARCHITECT TO TRY
TO PRESERVE THIS CHIMNEY AND
STRUCTURALLY SUPPORT IT WITHIN
THE FAIRLY NARROW ATTIC THAT
WE'RE PROPOSING IS GOING TO BE
A CHALLENGE.
I'M NOT SAYING IT'S IMPOSSIBLE
.
IT'S POSSIBLE ANYTHING'S
POSSIBLE BUT YOU KNOW,
CONSTRUCTIVE ALREADY WISE
YOU'RE ASKING BUILDERS TO
SUPPORT A VERY HEAVY OLD MASS
OF BRICKS UP THIRTY FEET IN THE
AIR THAT IS I MEAN IT SEEMS A
BIT DANGEROUS.
I MEAN CONSTRUCTION IS
INHERENTLY DANGEROUS.
BUT THIS IS THIS IS GOING WELL
BEYOND WHAT IS NORMALLY
REQUIRED IN TERMS RISKY RISK
FOR A PROJECT LIKE THIS AND NOT
ONLY THAT THEN YOU'RE YOU'RE
YOU'RE ALSO, YOU KNOW, LIVING
WITH THIS VERY HEAVY MASS
OF BRICKS ABOVE YOUR HEAD FOR
THE REST OF YOUR LIFE IN THIS
HOUSE THAT SEEMS A LITTLE BIT
CONCERNING TO ME.
I MEAN, YES, WE CAN DESIGN THIS
THING TO BE SUPPORTED AND THINK
ABOUT WIND LOADS AND YOU KNOW,
OTHER LAWS TO CONSIDER.
BUT IT IS IT IS QUITE A
CHALLENGE I THINK.
AND THE OTHER THING TO
UNDERSTAND ABOUT THE CHIMNEY IS
IT GETS ITS INTEGRITY FROM ITS
BASE AND FROM BEING TIED
TOGETHER ALL THE WAY TO THE
GROUND.
SO NOW YOU'RE SUPPORTING A VERY
HEAVY OBJECT ON SKINNY WOOD
TRUSSES WAY UP IN THE AIR AND
IT'S IT'S A LOT SO YES, IT'S
DOABLE.
I UNDERSTAND THAT IS A
CHARACTER DEFINING FEATURE BUT
TO ME IT JUST SEEMS RELATIVELY
MINOR ONE AND THE COST TO
PRESERVE IN THIS PROJECT AND
YOU KNOW, THE I THINK A SAFETY
RISK I THINK IT IS LEGITIMATE
SAFETY RISK.
I SAW JOE MENTIONED SAFETY AS A
CONCERN.
I DO THINK IT'S A POTENTIAL
SAFETY CONCERN FOR THE PUBLIC
OR WHOEVER IS LIVING IN THIS
HOUSE AND WHOEVER'S BUILDING
THIS PROJECT.
SO I THINK JUST PRACTICALLY
PLEASE KEEP THAT IN MIND AS YOU
CONSIDER THIS PROPOSAL, IS IT
REALLY WORTH THE EFFORT AND THE
RISK?
AND THE LAST THING I JUST ASK
YOU CONSIDER IS THE FUNCTION
OF THE CHIMNEY.
YOU KNOW, WHEN THIS THING WAS
BUILT THERE WAS SMOKE COMING
OUT OF IT.
IT WAS VENTING IT'S VENTING
GASES.
IT HAS A VERY IMPORTANT
FUNCTION FOR THE HOUSE TO LET
THE HOUSE BREATHE AND EXHAUST
UNSAFE AIR.
BUT OUR PROPOSAL IS TO CHANGE
THIS FROM BEING A FORCED AIR
SYSTEM USING OLDER TECHNOLOGIES
TO TRYING TO BE MORE ENERGY
EFFICIENT AND TRYING TO YOU
KNOW, TRYING TO USE NEWER
TECHNOLOGIES THAT MAKE THE AIR
CLEANER TO BREATHE AND DON'T
REQUIRE THIS KIND OF VENTING.
SO I MEAN FOR ME FROM A
HISTORIC PERSPECTIVE, THERE WAS
A DAY WHEN YOU WALK DOWN THE
STREET AND THERE'S SMOKE OR GAS
COMING OUT OF THESE CHIMNEYS
AND THAT IS TO ME I THINK A
PART OF THE CHARACTER OF THE
NEIGHBORHOOD WHEN YOU HAVE A
CHIMNEY.
BUT IF YOU'RE LIVING IN A
NEIGHBORHOOD WHERE THERE ARE
ALL THESE CHIMNEYS AND
NOTHING'S COMING OUT OF THEM,
TO ME THAT'S A VERY DIFFERENT A
DIFFERENT SITUATION.
I US AND SO I GUESS I JUST ASK
YOU TO CONSIDER THAT THIS IS
GOING TO THAT CHIMNEY AND WE'RE
JUST WRAPPING IT UP.
IT'S NOT SERVING ANY FUNCTION
FOR THE HOUSE.
SO THOSE THREE POINTS I THINK I
JUST ASK YOU TO CONSIDER THEM.
I YOU KNOW, I'M GENERALLY
VERY
SUPPORTIVE OF TRYING TO
PRESERVE THIS HOUSE ON THE
EXTERIOR, YOU KNOW, REUSING
MATERIALS, SALVAGING WHAT WE
CAN, PRESERVING THE CHARACTER.
BUT FOR ME THIS IS A VERY MINOR
FEATURE AND I THINK THE RISK
DOES NOT OUTWEIGH THE THE COST
TO DO IT.
I DON'T THINK IT'S WORTH THE
COST AND THE RISK I US.
>> THANK YOU, CASEY.
APPRECIATE IT.
OK, SO LET'S WRAP UP DISCUSSION
AND THEN WE'LL HAVE A VOTE
HERE.
I THINK THAT I THINK WE'VE SORT
OF DISCUSSED ALL OF THE ALL THE
ELEMENTS.
I'LL I'LL JUST ASK IF ANYONE
HAS ANY FURTHER COMMENTS HERE.
I'M GOING TO I THINK THAT I'D
LIKE TO LEAVE THE MOTION AS IS
AND VOTE ON THAT MOTION.
I HAVE A QUESTION.
YES.
AND SOME OF IT I JUST WANT TO
MAKE SURE THAT THAT OR YOU KNOW
,AS PROPOSED THAT'S SORT
OF HOW WE'VE YOU KNOW,
COVERED EVERYTHING.
WE'RE GOING TO REMOVE THAT THE
ROOF AS PROPOSED.
I THINK THAT THE THE
APPLICATION DID SAY SOMETHING
ABOUT MAINTAINING ALL OF THE
THE ROOF GEOMETRY AS YOU'VE
MENTIONED.
BUT I'M NOT SURE IT'S SO I WANT
TO CONFIRM THAT OR SHOULD WE
ADD THAT TO THE MOTION AND THE
OTHER POINT WAS ABOUT THE
MORTAR JOINTS AND BREAKS.
I DON'T THINK THAT WAS A CAR
THAT HAD BEEN DISCUSSED IN
DETAIL.
DO WE WANT TO SO I DON'T THINK
THAT IS AS PROPOSED BY YOUR
COMMENT ABOUT MATCHING THE THE
NORTH SIDE MORTAR JOINTS.
DO WE WANT TO ADD THAT?
I THINK I THINK THAT THOSE ARE
TWO REALLY GOOD POINTS.
I I'M ALMOST POSITIVE THAT IN
THE APPLICATION IT SAYS THAT
THE ROOF ROOF BRIDGE HEIGHT
AND SOFFIT WILL ALL REMAIN THE
SAME.
IS THAT CORRECT?
YEAH, THAT'S RIGHT.
OK, SO THAT'S IN THERE BUT IS
THERE SOMETHING IN THERE ABOUT
MATCHING MORTAR OR I THINK IT
DOES MATCH THE APPEARANCE BUT
TO JUST USE POINT UP HERE YOU
DON'T WANT TO MATCH THE
APPEARANCE OF SOME OF IT.
YOU KNOW THEY MATCH.
YES.
EITHER WAY WITH THAT SORT OF IT
IS ABOUT FOUNDATION.
YEAH.
LET'S IS THERE ANYTHING IN
THERE ABOUT THE MORTAR JOINTS
IF YOU'RE SUGGESTING TO TO ADD
THAT COMMENT?
I WOULD HAVE TO SUPPORT THAT
DEFINITELY.
>> YEAH.
YEAH OK, SO THIS IS A TRICKY
THOUGH MIKE BECAUSE
COMMISSIONER FOURNIER, WHAT
WOULD YOU RECOMMEND A WORDING
OF THAT TO BE BECAUSE THEY'RE
IS A LOT OF VARIED STONEWORK.
YES.
IS THERE SOMETHING THAT WOULD
POINT OUT THE PAGE IS THIS THE
OR A ZERO?
YEAH, WE DO REFERENCE THE ORDER
.
WE SAY WE JUST SAY WITH ORDER
TO MATCH THE EXISTING COLOR
OF GRADE WE DON'T SPECIFICALLY
WRITE OF THE JOINT OR DEATH
RATE WITH THAT I THINK THAT
LEVEL OF DETAIL DID MORE EMERGE
IN OUR CONVERSATION ON MONDAY
AND I GUESS WE JUST DIDN'T GET
THE LINE RIGHT.
>> YEAH, THAT'S OK.
SO WE'RE JUST GOING TO ADD
SOMETHING TO THE MOTION THAT
WILL BE I THINK CONCISE BUT BUT
MENTION JUST SOMETHING ABOUT
THE MORTAR BUT MISS THATCHER,
ISN'T THERE A APPROPRIATE NOT
APPROPRIATE GUIDELINE
CONCERNING MORTER WE JUST TAKE
MAYBE TAKE THE LANGUAGE RIGHT
FROM THERE MAYBE I PUT IT IN
THE STAFF REPORT.
>> ARE YOU SAYING I THINK THAT
YOU READ ONE ABOUT MORTAR?
LET ME GO BACK TO THAT.
YEAH.
IN THE PRESENTATION IT'S
IMPORTANT IMPORTANCE ME THAT IS
THAT WAS PART OF THE THE DETAIL
I WANT TO GET BETTER BUT OR
COMMISSIONER, DO YOU HAVE
LANGUAGE THAT YOU WERE THINKING
IT JUST SEEMS TRICKY TO KNOW WE
DON'T WANT TO SAY MATCH RIGHT
NOW THAT MAY NOT BE POSSIBLE TO
USING USING THE NORTH SIDE
FOUNDATION WALL AS A WELL THE
NORSON FOUNDATION WELL HAS LIKE
THE AXLER LIKE CUT STONE SO
THAT WOULD BE APPROPRIATE FOR
THE OTHER PLACES WHERE THERE
ARE THAT.
BUT THEN THERE'S THE MIX
OF REGULAR STONE OR FIELD STONE
OR WHATEVER YOU WOULD CALL IT.
I THOUGHT THE ONE PICTURE WITH
IT THAT WAS HADFIELD'S STONE.
>> YEAH THERE'S SORT OF OK SO
WHAT DOES THIS SAY THIS DOESN'T
OH DUPLICATING OLD MORTAR IN
THE COMPOSITION COLOR TEXTURE
CAN WE JUST SAY AND MORTAR AND
MORTAR AS A AS APPROPRIATE IN
THE ANN ARBOR HISTORIC DISTRICT
DESIGN GUIDELINES IS THAT TOO
BIG FOR EVERYONE OR.
OH I THINK THERE HAS TO BE I
THINK THERE HAS TO BE AN
ELEMENT OF FLEXIBILITY TO IT.
YOU KNOW, I'M ABSOLUTELY
TALKING ABOUT THE ODD SHAPED
STONE, YOU KNOW, I THINK RIGHT.
SO THAT WOULD BE SORT OF BROAD
SOMETHING IN THERE ABOUT IT BUT
BROAD ENOUGH THAT THEY COULD
ACHIEVE IT.
YES, I THINK THAT CASEY SAID
SOMETHING JUST CONVERSATION
THAT WE BROUGHT THIS UP THAT I
THOUGHT MADE SENSE WHICH WAS
LOOKING AT THE EXISTING
FOUNDATION FOR THE OLDEST AND
LEAST DISTURBED PORTION OF THE
FIELDSTONE WALL AND THEN
EMULATING IT BECAUSE I THINK
WHAT WE'RE REALLY TRYING TO
AVOID IS IS MATCHING TO THE
REALLY SLOPPILY REPAIRED THINGS
THAT HAVE BEEN DONE PATCHWORK
NILLY OVER TIME THAT THEIR
WORKPLACES I REMEMBER THEM I
DON'T REMEMBER WHERE THERE WERE
PLACES WHERE THE FIELDS LOOKED
PRETTY MUCH ORIGINAL AND AND
THOSE THOSE MORTAR JOINTS WERE
CONSISTENT.
SO IF WE JUST SORT OF RIPPED
OFF OF THAT, I THINK THAT WORKS
WELL.
I THINK WE'RE EMULATE WAS THE
VERB EMULATE THERE WE GO.
OK AND THAT MATCH NEVER OH
LET'S HEAR.
SO ADDING A CONDITION POSSIBLY
EXCUSE ME TO THE TO THE MOTION
ON THE CONDITION OF THE MASONRY
FOUNDATION IS REBUILT
DUPLICATING THE MORTAR
COMPOSITION HISTORIC JOINT AND
RAQUE SIZE COLOR AND TEXTURE
OK
INSTEAD OF I'M SORRY INSTEAD
OF RAQUE I'M GOING TO USE THE
JOINT PROFILE BECAUSE I THINK
IT'S A LITTLE THAT'S WHAT IT
SAYS IN THE IT'S IN THE
GUIDELINES JOINT PROFILE
DUPLICATING THE DUPLICATING THE
HISTORIC MORTAR COMPOSITION
JOINT SIZE JOINT PROFILES ALSO
JOINT SIZES.
THERE'S MULTIPLE JOINT PROFILES
COLOR AND TEXTURE.
I MEAN WE'RE NOT GOING TO GO
OUT AND MEASURE BETWEEN EVERY
STONE AND COMPARE IT TO
DOCUMENTARY PHOTOGRAPHS.
>> WELL, SOMEONE MIGHT BUT IF
YOU END UP WITH A THREE INCH
WIDE JOINT, YOU KNOW, WE ARE
CLEARLY TO BE A ONE INCH WIDE
JOINT.
THAT'S A PROBLEM OF OK, ALL
RIGHT.
THAT WAS THAT WAS GOOD.
ANY OTHER COMMENTS THERE ON THE
MOTION?
OK WERE THE FIRST OR KATHEE AND
JUST OK WITH THAT CATHY DO LIKE
THEM.
YEAH YEAH OK GREAT.
OK WELL THEN THAT WAS SOME GOOD
DISCUSSION BUT NOW IT'S TIME TO
VOTE SO I WILL SAY ALL THOSE IN
FAVOR OF THE MOTION PLEASE SAY
YES YES ALL THOSE OPPOSED
PLEASE SAY NO.
RIGHT THE MOTION CARRIES THE
APPLICATION HAS BEEN APPROVED.
PLEASE NOTE YOU MUST APPLY FOR
ANY REQUIRED PERMITS OBVIOUSLY
BEFORE STARTING CONGRATULATIONS
WE GOT THERE.
YEAH OK SO THAT WAS IT FOR
HEARINGS.
>> YEAH I TO DO BUSINESS LET'S
GO ON A NEW BUSINESS AND I DO
NOT BELIEVE THERE IS ANY NEW
BUSINESS THERE IS OF COURSE
THERE IS.
WE NEED TO APPOINT A NOMINATING
COMMITTEE.
OH YEAH THAT'S RIGHT THE
NOMINATING COMMITTEE ALTERNATES
IN OUR BYLAWS THAT WE DO THIS
AND SO WE NEED ONE OR TWO
PEOPLE TO VOLUNTEER TO EMAIL OR
TALK TO PEOPLE THAT THEY THINK
WOULD BE THE BEST SLATE
OF OFFICERS TO PUT FORWARD AND
THEN NEXT MONTH WE WILL VOTE ON
A SLATE THAT ONE OR ANOTHER ONE
.
>> OK, WE'RE COMING AT THIS
FROM A LITTLE BIT WEIRD TIMING
.
WE USUALLY DO THE ELECTIONS IN
OCTOBER BUT WE HAD THREE
MEMBERS LEAVE, RIGHT?
WE'VE GOT SOME NEW OFFICERS AND
NOW WE'VE NEW MEMBERS.
>> SO WE'RE PLAYING CATCH UP A
LITTLE BIT.
BUT AND COMMISSIONER WHITE HAD
BEEN THE NOMINATED MONEY FOR
LIKE A DECADE AND A HALF OR
SOMETHING.
YEAH, RIGHT.
SO WHEN ANY ONE OF YOU LARGE
CHOOSE TO FILL THAT, IT MAY BE
AN EASY JOB BECAUSE YOU MAY
JUST BE NOMINATING THE CURRENT
OFFICERS RIGHT?
YEAH.
TAKE CARE OF YOUR YEAH.
IT'S AN EASY JOB.
THERE COULD BE AN EASY JOB AS
WHAT STAFF ARE SAYING I CAN DO
IT.
ALL RIGHT.
FANTASTIC THAT.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH,
COMMISSIONER CALDERON.
>> OK, IS THAT ALL THE NEW
BUSINESS OR DO WE MORE NEW
BUSINESS?
OK, SO LET'S MOVE ON THEN TO H
APPROVAL OF MINUTES.
>> THERE WERE TWO MONTHS
OF MINUTES THAT WERE EMAILED
OUT.
THANK YOU TO THE CITY STAFF FOR
COMPILING THE MINUTES AND FOR
EMAILING THEM SO WE'LL TAKE A
LOOK AT THOSE.
>> YEAH, THIS MIGHT BE A GOOD
MOMENT FOR ME TO SAY THAT MAYOR
GAYLE WHO'S BEEN WITH US AS
LONG AS I'VE BEEN HERE ALMOST
IS RETIRING.
OH
MY IMMINENTLY SO YOU DON'T
YOU DON'T USUALLY GET TO SEE
HER ANYWAY BUT YOU PROBABLY
WON'T BE TALKING TO HER OR
EMAILING WITH HER.
BUT COURTNEY MANOR WHO'S BEEN
IN PLANNING FOR A COUPLE
OF YEARS IS NOW DOING THE WORK
OF FOUR PEOPLE AND SHE'S
HANDLING THE HTC AS WELL AND
SHE'S DOING A BANG UP JOB.
SO IF YOU CAN'T GET ME FOR SOME
REASON, YOU KNOW WHEN YOU WOULD
NORMALLY FALL BACK TO ME
COURTNEY MANOR, DO YOU WANT TO
GO TO CHURCH MIA FOR THE FOR
THE EMAILS TOO?
YEAH.
YOU'RE GOING TO HAVE TO SWITCH
TO.
>> ALL RIGHT.
HAS ANYONE FOUND ANY
CORRECTIONS THE MINUTES I JUST
WANTED TO DOUBLE CHECK THAT I
BELIEVE WHAT MONTH WERE YOU ON
SEPTEMBER.
OK, WE'LL START WITH SEPTEMBER
THEN GO TO YEAH THAT'S A GREAT
IDEA.
SO THE ITEM FOR THAT WAS THE
BARRIER FREE ENTRANCE
APPLICATION.
OH YEAH.
IT SAID THAT THE APPLICANT WAS
AVAILABLE TO RESPOND TO
QUESTIONS OH LEAVE IT WAS NOT
AVAILABLE.
THAT'S CORRECT.
THANK YOU FOR CATCHING THAT.
YOU KNOW THE APPLICANT WAS
AVAILABLE I GUESS THAT WAS
SUPPOSED TO SAY THE APPLICANT
WAS NOT AVAILABLE.
I BELIEVE SO.
RIGHT.
GOOD POINT.
THANK YOU
.
I WAS ON OK SO SEPTEMBER THEN
MOVING ON TO OCTOBER SIMILAR OR
SIMILAR ITEM.
LET'S HEAR IT.
I BELIEVE ITEM F ONE THE PATIO
APPLICATION SAME THING WITH THE
APPLICATION PRESENT.
I DON'T THINK THE APPLICANT WAS
NOT PRESENT BUT OK
, THANK YOU
VERY MUCH.
SURE.
GREAT.
OK SO AS CORRECTED WE WILL
PROVE THOSE MINUTES.
>> OK SO NOW WE'LL MOVE ON TO
AI REPORTS FROM COMMISSIONERS'
IS THERE ANY AND DO WE HAVE ANY
REPORTS FROM COMMISSIONERS'?
OK SO THAT GETS US TO J
ASSIGNMENT'S SO NOW THAT'S FOR
THE REVIEW COMMITTEE IN
DECEMBER.
>> WHAT DATE IS THAT I SHOULD
SAY ON THE AGENDA ELEVEN.
OK DECEMBER 11 ANY TAKERS?
I GOT THE REVIEW COMMITTEE.
ALL RIGHT THANK YOU BEN.
>> THAT'S AT NOON ON DECEMBER
11TH.
NOBODY ELSE LOOKS LIKE
COMMISSIONER SMITH IS CHECKING
HIS SCHEDULE ONE DAY.
>> YEAH, IT'S IT'S AT NOON FOR
HALF THE YEAR AND THEN IT
SWITCHES TO FIVE SWITCHES TO
LATER.
>> YEAH YEAH THAT'S THAT'S
TYPICAL WHERE SOME PEOPLE ARE
NOON AND SOME PEOPLE ARE FIVE
SO YOU'LL HAVE AN OPPORTUNITY I
WILL HAVE TO CHECK OK WHY DON'T
YOU CHECK.
YEAH AND THEN IF IF
COMMISSIONER FORTNER CAN'T DO
IT AND COMMISSIONER ROSS CAN'T
DO IT THEN LET ME KNOW THAT
THEN I'LL ASK JENNIFER I CAN DO
IT IF IF IF YOU IF YOU'RE ON TO
STRIKE TO LET ME JUST CHECK
BEFORE I SAY THAT DECEMBER 11TH
.
YEAH OK.
I CAN DO IT IF THEY CAN'T OK
SOMETHING VERY GOOD.
OK SO NOW WE'RE ON TO REPORTS
FROM STAFF ANYTHING TO REPORT.
I DO THAT OK ALL RIGHT OK I WHO
SURVEYING IS STARTING.
OH THAT'S EXCITING SEEING
PEOPLE WALKING AROUND WITH
CAMERAS OH IPADS TAKING
PICTURES AND THAT'S SO
EXCITING.
YEAH THEY'LL BE HERE FOR A WEEK
AND THEN WHEN THEY'RE DONE
WEATHER CAN THEY LIKE PRESENT
TO US OR SOMETHING LIKE WHAT
THEY DID I MEAN THEY'LL BE
REALLY INTERESTING.
YEAH OK GREAT.
YEAH YEAH FANTASTIC.
ANYTHING ELSE YOU KNOW THAT'S
IT.
OK NOW WE'RE ON TO L CONCERNS
OF COMMISSIONERS.
I JUST HAD A THOUGHT YOU KNOW I
JUST LEARNED THIS I THINK WHEN
EVERYONE ELSE DID THE IS
RETIRING I FEEL LIKE WE SHOULD
MAYBE HAVE A PERMISSION
ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF JUST ALL THE
HELP THAT SHE'S DONE FOR US
OVER THE YEARS.
SO DOES ANYONE WANT TO BE KIND
OF TAKE THE LEAD ON THAT SO WE
DON'T HAVE TO DO THAT WORD?
ANYONE FEELING GRATEFUL IN
THEIR HEARTS AT THE MOMENT WITH
ANYONE MAYBE JUST GET A CARD?
YEAH.
YEAH, PERFECT MEETING.
YOU CAN BUY SOMETHING NICE IN
IT.
THAT WOULD BE AMAZING.
WHAT A GREAT I CAN I CAN I CAN
BRING HER TO THE NEXT MEETING.
ALL RIGHT ALL RIGHT OK.
ALL RIGHT THANK YOU FOR THAT.
WILL THAT BE SOON ENOUGH TO
WILL MELISSA BE OK?
YEAH SHE'LL BE HERE THROUGH
SOMETIME.
VERY GOOD.
OH THAT'D BE PERFECT TIMING
THEN WE'LL GET IT IN DECEMBER I
THINK THAT'LL BE REALLY NICE.
>> THAT'S A REALLY NICE MEETING
NEXT WEEK.
NO I MEAN SHE'S HAD RETURNED
EMAIL STARTING NOW.
YES.
BUT SHE'S NOT RETIRING FOR A
WHILE.
OK, VERY GOOD.
>> THAT'S A GREAT IDEA.
THANK YOU ALL.
ANY OTHER CONCERNS
OF COMMISSIONERS?
I'M NOT SEEING ANY SO WE'LL
MOVE ON TO M COMMUNICATION ANY
COMMUNICATIONS THIS MONTH?
NO.
OK, VERY GOOD.
SO I NOW ADJOURN THE FOR
ANOTHER TWENTY TWENTY THREE
HISTORIC DISTRICT COMMISSION
MEETING.
THANK YOU ALL VERY MUCH.
YEAH YEAH